---
aliases: [Stalinist, Stalinists, Marxist-Leninism, Marxist-Leninist, Marxist-Leninists]
---
# Stalinism
#hub

---
Marxism-Leninism is the ideology that emerged from [[Stalin]]'s buraucratic caste in the USSR. It isn't really coherent, as it was a tool that was used for whatever purpose the bureaucracy needed at the moment. From my perspective, Marxism-Leninism fails to grasp either the lessons of [[Marxism]] or the lessons that [[Lenin]] left in his writings. In an attempt to coopt [[Lenin]]'s legacy, Stalin generated the theory of 'Marxism-Leninism' just after Lenin's death. 

Opponents of Marxism-Leninism refer to the ideology as 'Stalinism,' but most MLs wouldn't call themselves Stalinists. 

## Is Marxism-Leninism a Living Force?
If we view all ideologies as the formalized interests of a specific class or strata, then we come to the conclusion that while there are multiple organizations on the US left that adhere to 'Stalinist' positions, Stalinism isn't really a living force anymore, unless you count the ideology being generated by the [[CPC]]. 

However, there still seems to be some momentum in ML ideas. This is probably due to the inertial from the achievements of the USSR and the bureaucratic cliques that still exist in some areas that carry on the legacy of Stalinism. 

## Marxist-Leninists and Marxist-Leninist Organizations
- [[Stalin]]
- [[CPUSA]]

## Further reading
```dataview
LIST 
FROM [[Stalinism]]
AND "Ideas"
AND -outgoing([[Stalinism]])
WHERE file.name != "home"
```