---
rating: A
author: Frank Herbert
genre: fiction
---
# Dune
`TAGS:` #book

---
# Review
This book was excellent. I read something like 800 pages in just over a week, which gives you an idea of how enthralling this book was. The world building is excellent, with attention paid to history, [[religion]], and ecology of the planet. 

Overall, one of the best novels I've ever read. I'm looking forward to the movie, but I don't think it's possible to do this movie justice given how much of the plot development occurs in the thoughts of the various characters. I doubt they will capture that aspect, which is something that truly elevates the experience of reading Dune. 

---
# Introduction
Dune is a science fiction novel released in 1965. Since this is a work of fiction, I won't be taking extensive notes. I just want a place to write my overall thoughts and impressions of the book. 

# Philosophy
Dune has some interesting concepts related to [[philosophy]]. 

# Bene Gesserit
They seem to say some things that are adjacent to [[dialectics]]. 

# Politics
I've heard Dune described as having a pro-[[Anarchism]] message, and also that the author is a Libertarian. 

# Superstructure of the Dune universe
The known universe is run under [[feudalism]], with an Emperor and various noble Houses that compete for influence and power. There also seems to be some sort of parliament, called the Landsraad. Interplanetary travel is controlled by the Spacing Guild. There is also some sort of spiritual organization called the Bene Gesserit. 

# Economic base of the Dune universe
The economy seems the be driven by *spice*, which is a drug needed to allow pilots to navigate through space. They need this since after something called the Butlerian Rebellion, all "thinking machines" were destroyed and people called Mentats must perform complex calculations themselves. Mentats are able to do this because of psychic training from an early age.

# Duke Leto
I think it's interesting that he isn't portrayed as a totally good guy. He's not above deceit and treachery to protect his House.

# The Fremen
These are the indigenous people of Arrakis. Their culture places a really high value on water. They live sort of hunter-gatherer lifestyle, but they also have advanced technology which is a little bit unrealistic imo but is interesting. 

# Arrakis
This planet seems really interesting. I'm looking forward to reading about the ecology of the planet in that appendix. 

# Premonition
This series focuses heavily on premonitions and how the oracular sight affects the oracle psychologically. In *Dune Messiah* we see how Paul is almost cursed with the knowledge of a future he can't avoid, or rather the knowledge of how bad the "ideal" path forward is for his family line when he basically accepts the death of Chiani during childbirth. 