---
author: Guido van Rossum, Nick Coghlan
rating: WIP 
genre: STEM
format: atticle
---
# PEP 8
`LINKS:` [source](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#introduction)
`TAGS:` #article #wip 
`AUTHOR:` Guido van Rossum, Nick Coghlan

---
## Introduction
The authors say that this document gives coding conventions for the standard [[Python]] distribution. They note that project-specific guidelines should take precedence over these basic recommendations.

## 1. A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds
The article says that one of Guido's key insights was that code is read much more often than it is written. Therefore, this article says, we should design code conventions to maximize readability and make it consistent. [[Write legible code]]! 

However, the authors say that we should know when to be *inconsistent* and break the rules when style guides aren't applicable. They specify that we shouldn't break working code just to make it comply with this PEP. 

## 2. Code lay-out
The authors say we should use four spaces per indentation level. They also say we should indent continuation lines such that they are aligned with the opening delimiter. Or, they add, we can use a hanging indent.

```python
# aligned with delimiter:
def example(argument1,
		    argument2,
		    argument3):

# hanging indent:
def example(
	argument1,
	argument2,
	argument3):
```

The article notes that when the conditional part of an `if` statement is too long for one line, we can have the same sort of formatting as above.

```python
if (condition1, 
    condition2,
    condition3):
	
	do_something()
```

The authors recommend that we make sure the closing brace/bracket/parenthesis of multiline constructs either lines up under the first non-whitespace character of the final line, as in example 1, or under the first character of the line that begins the construct, as in example 2.

```python
# example one
my_list = [
	1, 2, 3,
	4, 5, 6
	]

# example two
my_list = [
	1, 2, 3,
	4, 5, 6
]
```

The authors prefer spaces as the indentation method. They say that tabs should only be used to remain consistent with code that is already using tabs. 

The authors recommend limiting line length to 79 characters for readability. For text, they tell us to limit length to 72 characters. They say that this limit is chosen to avoid wrapping, which disrupts the structure of code and limits readability.

The article explains that the preferred way of handling line wrapping is by using Python's implied line continuation within parentheses, brackets, and braces, but sometimes a backslash `\` may be needed to explicitly insist on a line continuation, such as in the following example. 

```python
with open('/path/to/some/file/you/want/to/read') as file_1, \
     open('/path/to/some/file/being/written', 'w') as file_2:
    file_2.write(file_1.read())
```

Above, the backslash at the end of the first line indicates that the first and second lines should be read as a single line. 

The authors say that for decades, it was agreed that the line break should come after the operator, but the authors disagree with this, saying that it limits readabillity by placing operators far from their *operand* (item they operate on). 

```python
# wrong
cash_on_hand = (revenue -
		  		expenses +
			    banked)

# correct
cash_on_hand = (revenue
		  		- expenses
			    + banked)
```

The authors instruct us to surround top-level function and class definitions with two blank lines. They say that method definitions should be surrounded by single blank lines. The article recommends using blank lines sparingly to separate unrelated functions or indicate logical sections of the code within functions. 

The authors recommend always using UTF-8 encoding. 

The authors instruct us to import things on separate lines, but allow for multiple imports from a single package to occur on one line. 

```python
import os
import sys
from subprocess import Popen, PIPE
```

According to the article, we should put imports at the top of the file, just after module comments and docstrings, before module globals and constants. They advise us to first have standard library imports, and then related third party imports, and finally local application / library specific imports, with a break between each group. 

## 3. String quotes
The article recommends either choosing single quotations, or double quotations, and sticking to them.

## 4. Whitespace in expressions and statements
The article says to avoid extraneous whitespace when inside parentheses, brackets, or braces. The also advise to avoid whitespace between trailing commas and closing parenthesis, and immediately before a comma or semicolon / colon.

```python
# a bunch of bad examples
spam( ham[ 1 ], { eggs: 2 } )

foo = (0, )

if x == 4 : print(x , y)
```

The authors say we should surround binary operators with a single space on each side. 

## 5. When to use trailing commas

## 6. Comments
The article emphasizes that incorrect comments are worse than no comments at all, and advise us to update comments when code changes. 

The authors say that block comments should be indented to the same code that they discuss. The article says to use these sparingly, and only when they're explaining something non-obvious. 

## 7. Naming conventions

## 8. Programming recommendations