# Nutrition Meeting with Dr. Judson, 2021-06-24
`LINKS`: [[health meetings]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/health

---
## Topics to discuss
- Reducing sugar intake
- How to gauge long-term inflammation
- Endorcinology / [[osteoperosis]] 
- Anemia

## Notes
- Sugar
	- What if we try and find better versions of refined sugars to substitute, without food dye? 
	- Pair it with a protein or fat so that digest slower. 
	- Gauge quantity based on symptoms that result from consumption.
	- Food dye is a strong candidate for an inflammation trigger, I should avoid entirely. 
	- For other triggers, I should seek to avoid overconsumption. 
	- Refined vs otherwise
		- Not concerned about natural sugar, fiber comes along with those which counters the inflammatory nature of the sugar
		- She's most concerned with refined sugars in processed foods, esp with food dye
- MRI results
	- Degree of inflammation has decreased, but no metrics are listed. 
	- My C Reactive protein is in the normal range. From a blood perspective, I have no inflammation. All inflammation is in the lumen of the intestine. 
- Anemia
	- Infusion could have caused it to appear, if nothing has changed and it disappeared, it could just be a fluke. If I was chronically anaemic, I would need an infusion or supplement. My levels in June are all good though. 
- Long term inflammation
	- We can do fecal analysis
	- Colonoscopy is the most thorough approach
	- For me, classic symptoms are diarrha and abdominal pain. If I notice this increasing, or appetite decreasing along with weight, that's a red flag. 
- Bone density
	- I should get 1800 mg daily from a chewable variety. 
	- Take 600 mg at a time. 
	- ==Calcium and iron supplements must be taken 2+ hours apart!==
	- She suspects that my bone density is improving since I'm gaining weight. If I got tested next year, she expects better scores.
	- We can make improvements to bone density as I age. I can improve through weight gain, strength building
- We will meet again in September, but we could meet in August if there was something that came up.

## Actionables
- [x] Take 1800 mg chewable calcium pill (viactiv brand is best) daily.
- [x] Limit refined sugars, especially with food dye.