# 2021-02-03 meeting with Dr. Zisman
`LINKS:` [[health meetings]]
#meeting/health

---
- If [[entyvio]] isn't working then we gotta switch.
- We need a check-in to submit documentation to renew insurance coverage before it lapses. 
- I need lean protein for building my weight back up
- I'm losing response to Entyvio.
- [[MR enterography]] results
	- Inflammation, no obstruction
	- Areas of narrowing
	- Active disease
	- Indications of long term scar tissue causing bulging upstream
- First strat
	- Reduce active inflammation with [[entocort]], increased entyvio
	- Reasses after 2 months 
	- Then think about MRI or colonoscopy to see whats up
	- Colonoscopy *could* stretch the narrow area during the procedure but this might not last. 
	- Otherwise surgery is needed to remove the narrowing. 
- After entyvio
	- [[remicade]] or [[humira]] has most evidence
	- [[stelara]] is second up
- They're sending another prescription
	- Dont take three a day, take 2 a day for a month, then 1 for a month
- Vaccines
	- ==prednar and numavax== for pneumonia
	- I can go to the injection clinic
- COVID
	- I count as immune suppressed, but WA isn't vaccinating us now. 
- Colonoscopy
	- I need one this year anyway for colon cancer
	- Later this year
- ==ACTIONS==
	- Follow up visit in 2 months
	- Colonoscopy later this year to screen for colon cancer, disease activity, and possibly stretching out my guts. 
	- I need to get pneumonia vaccines at a Virgina Mason injection center.
	- I need to get the second Hep shot at QFC.