# Meeting with Dr. Zisman
`DATE:` Thursday, September 02, 2021
`WITH:` Dr. Zisman (gastroenterologist)
#meeting/health

---
# Topics to discuss
- New infusion center hasn't reached out
- Plan for flare if I just suddenly start getting worse
- Sending info to bone density people
	- They wanted to see the xrays
- Re-introduction of greek yogurt

# Notes
- Infusion center
	- Due for infusion on Sept 21
- Flare plan
	- 1: notify Zisman ASAP
	- 2: diagnostic eval
		- MRE
		- Colonoscopy
		- Blood tests
		- Check infliximab level or increase dose
	- 3: possibly switch medicine to Stelara or enter randomized trial that they're conducting
- Bone density info
	- I can give it from my portal to theirs manually
	- GI doesn't have the images, radiology might have them
	- Radiology might not have saved the images
	- Radiology -> nuclear medicine
- Dairy
	- During remission, I should be able to tolerate dairy
	- Unclear as to what extent diet plays role in inflammation
	- In some people,  abnormal bacteria are the cause for Crohn's inflammation
	- In others, all bacteria may be causing the inflammation and the immune system is haywire
	- Around 20% would benefit from a highly managed diet according to studies
	- More bac in colon than human cells in the body
	- We're studying bacterial species but we need to study function of each species to understand the system as a whole

Basically Dr. Zisman said that it's really unclear as to whether diet really helps people with Crohn's. Across various studies, about 20% of patients were able to reduce symptoms due to diet changes. 

The current idea is that Crohn's is the immune system reacting negatively to some bacteria in the gut. Therefore, changing your diet and affecting the balance of bacteria *could* help with inflammation, but in cases where *all* gut bacteria cause the negative reaction, that would be a waste of time. Also, the bacteria that is causing the inflammation could be different person to person, so a diet that works for one patient may do nothing for another. 

It's really hard to study the gut microbiome, since there are more bacterial cells in your colon than human cells in your entire body. Furthermore, we need to know more than what species are present. We need to know the ratio of species, their distribution, and the role the species is playing in the system to really understand what's going on. 