# ðŸ“… Monday, October 25, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-24|previous]] // [[2021-10-26|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to start the process for writing a SR article. I should just do it, I've been wanting to do it forever. 

Today I'm grateful for having a more stable routine to my week, now that I have a job. I'm going to have lots of time for projects and politics. 

I also want to make more of an effort to help [[Eylen]] with the [[housing search]]. She's been finding all the apartments that we've been checking out, and I think she could use a helping hand. 

Yesterday evening we went to see *The French Dispatch*, a Wes Anderson film. It was the first time being in a theater in Seattle, and the first time being in a theater period in over two years. Seeing a movie on the big screen makes it into much more of an event than seeing a movie at home is. 

The movie was about a bunch of writers, and it made me want to write an article for *Socialist Revolution.* I've written more than 500,000 words in here, and more than two-thirds of that is likely political writing, so I ought to be able to write a decent article! I'm just not sure what I would want to write it on. I think the situation of the CHAZ is interesting and there are important lessons to be learned from it, but it seems like too large of a topic to tackle for my first article. 

- JCE questions
	- Meaning of "backwards" countries and social groups

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
