# ðŸ“… Thursday, November 11, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-10|previous]] // [[2021-11-12|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for my job again. It really provides me with structure that I enjoy, and if this job stayed remote forever, it would be hard for me to leave for a more stressful, time-intensive role. 

Today I really want to get to work on the [[stash-o-matic project]] again. It's been a few weeks of my new job, and this is the time to start taking that project a lot more seriously. That project is pretty much my ticket to a [[data science]] job after I'm no longer able to work from home in my current role. 

I also want to work on my new budget template for the new year. I think it makes more sense to break each page up into one sheet, so that I can make changes more easily across the months. By not writing out everything so far in advance, I create more work for me on a monthly basis, but I avoid having to make time-consuming edits down the line. This system is more agile and flexible. 

I've been drinking a lot of tea today, which makes me feel nice. I also have the advantage of being hydrated which is nice. It also feels nice to get started on the stash project again, I feel a lot more productive. I've only spent 15 days working on this project, and I think that I could get *a lot* done if I worked on it more consistently. 

To me, the idea productivity blend is 33% coding, 33% working, and 33% reading political theory. One percent relaxing. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
