# Tuesday, August 10, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-09|previous]] | [[2021-08-11|next]] | [[2021-08 August|month]] |[[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Thoughts
I'm doing well with Todoist so far, but I need to make an effort not to stretch myself too thin here. I'm tempted to add lots of new habits, such as meditating, stretching, etc, but I worry that I'll fall back into my old ways if I'm not careful. 

I think that if I were to calculate it, I would see that I write a lot each day. I think that because of this, [[Obsidian]] is really improving my ability to write clearly. I just installed the Better Word Count plugin so that I can see the total number of words in my vault. As of today, I've written 442,226 words over the last 256 days. That amounts to 1,727 words per day on average! If we assume that 300 words fit on a typical book's page, that means that if my notes were printed in paperback, it would be 1,474 pages long. That's over twice the length of [[Bolshevism - Road to Revolution (1999)]]! That's a lot of writing! 

Because I've been writing so much, I want to start writing for *Socialist Revolution.* I feel like I could whip up an article about basically anything in a very short amount of time, I just need to be pointed in the right direction. I should ask JT about that during our next one-on-one. 

## Gratitude
Today, seeing my writing stats has made me deeply grateful for Obsidian itself. This tool has really changed my life, and it makes me feel like I'm learning and growing daily. 

# Meeting with Leon
- How long can I continue as TA
	- Initially meant to be a 16 week position
	- Now there's a TA shortage 
	- I should plan on staying until late October at the earliest
	- After October, we will only have one cohort at a time. The rest will be flex so we won't need as many TAs
- How many hours can I expect in the future
	- Live online ramping down
	- Flex ramping up
- Flex format
	- Respond to slack questions in the evening hours
	- Most of the TAs have day jobs so they just do this between 5 and 7
	- Four hours of work per day, 2-3 days per week
- Ideas for my next project
	- [[cloud computing]] - use the most popular platform you see on job applications
	- Make a user-facing app with a ML backend hosted on a cloud platform

# Call with Dad
- Tim Carlin
	- Did Bolt
	- DoubleScoop
	- CS degree from Carnegie Melon
	- Apple --> Next w Steve Jobs
	- Used to consult with a health monitoring systems company
	- Looking to fill a data sci position
	- I should email him at tim@carlin.com

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
