# Tuesday, August 24, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-23|previous]] // [[2021-08-25|next]] // [[2021-08 August|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# Thoughts
Today my mission is to get back in the swing of things after my vacation.

Today I'm grateful for the ability to take nice vacations and not have an insane amount of things to catch up on. I spilled some egg yolk on the table right next to my laptop, and I'm thankful that I didn't get it all over the keyboard. 

Today is our first day back from our vacation at Crescent Bar, a resort on the east side of the Cascades. We stayed with a Highschool friend of Marina, Cari, whose family had one of the condos there. We spent a lot of time lounging by the pool and playing board games. Cari brought her dog, Remy, who was really sweet. Remy made me realize that it would be fun to have a dog and that I'm not just a cat person. 

Today I'm going to be the TA for the [[deep learning]] course, which is a little intimidating since I don't really know that much about this stuff. I'm going to have to pay more attention to what the instructors are teaching than I usually do if I want to be able to answer questions. 

I finally found the correct number for my dentist, Mt. Baker Dental. It's on their Yelp, (206) 588-2692. I put it in my [[health]] note. I have an appointment to look at my cracked tooth this afternoon. I'm glad that they were able to slot me in the same day that I called. Very convinient. 

I found a site where I *might* be able to get Tensorflow to work from. It contains an Apple fork of the package that is built for the M1 chip. https://github.com/apple/tensorflow_macos#details. Update: It didn't work. 

Out of the blue, my Dad's friend Tim Carlin got me hooked up with a potential Data Analyst role at a company called Optimize Health based in Seattle. 

# TA check-in
- TA schedule changing to accomodate late-evening questions.
- In the morning, *instructors* will manage Zoom. They will screenshot the attendance list and share with the TA. 
- TA will start 2pm ET, work until 7pm or 8pm ET. Preference is 2-8pm.
- If we have to get going sooner, we can log out at 6pm. 
- On presentation days, the TA will start earlier in the day to help with managing the zoom room during presentations. Leon will think on this and get back to us.

# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
