# Thursday, August 05, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-04|previous]] | [[2021-08-06|next]] | [[2021-08 August|month]] |[[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# Existing tasks
```tasks
not done
path does not include Templates
path does not include 2021-08-05
due before 2021-08-06
```

# New tasks
- [ ] #todo #health Message VM if no scheduling call from OptionCare 📅 2021-08-19

# Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 		(3+ pomo)
HUNT     ---> 		(4+ jobs or 1 C)
CREATE   --->  		(6+ pomo)
```

# Thoughts
[[Eylen]] and I took [[LSD]] yesterday. It made me realize that I've fallen into a deep rut of routinism when it comes to almost every aspect of my life. I really want to shake this, but I'm worried that I'll just go back go my old ways relatively quick. I want to be an active participant in my own life, not just treating the majority of my needs as afterthoughts. 

On the trip, I realized that [[Eylen]] and I share the same sort of issues about showing vulnerability, but from very different places. I think that being vulnerable with each other is the strongest pillar of our relationship. I should work more consciously to maintain that openness. 

Today I'm feeling #emotion/exhausted by the fact that life just keeps going and going. I don't know how anybody can keep up with it day after day.

I'm still going back and forth on if [[discipline]] is really aided by these habit trackers that I do. It seems like no system in the world can stop me from falling out of my good habits, and I tend to spend too much energy tracking my productivity when I'm feeling productive. Maybe an organic approach is really best. 

On top of all that, I got rejected from Code3, where I had just completed the second round of the interview process. They said that other candidates "were better able to provide deeper insights and more context around their assumptions for this assignment." I feel really #emotion/hopeless today.

I got a phone call from Virginia Mason. Apparently the infusion center there is overrun by cancer patients, and I'm being shipped off to a third party infusion service, called Optioncare. They should call me within 2 weeks to set up my next infusion, which should be around late September. Unfortunately, their nearest location is in Tukwilla! That fucking sucks. 

## Gratitude
Today I am thankful for Eylen. She noticed that I was feeling down and took good care of me. 

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
