# ðŸ“… Monday, November 08, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-07|previous]] // [[2021-11-09|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for [[Eylen]] for getting me such great gifts for my birthday yesterday. 

I suppose I should give an overview of our weekend trip to Vancouver. I've already mentioned how we had to get multiple [[COVID-19]] tests, so I can get right to the moment we crossed the border into Canada. Just our luck, we were selected to do *another* COVID test from our AirBnB. 

That was a pain in the ass, because we had to schedule a virtual appointment with a healthcare worker up there to watch us do the self-administered test. After that was done, we were finally able to get on with our trip. 

The actual AirBnB was really nicely located in the heart of downtown Vancouver. It was only a block away from the art museum, and the balcony provided an excellent view of the area. We spent a long time looking around with the host-provided binoculars. 

A highlight of this trip was the food, of course. Vancouver has some excellent food, and we made sure to sample all the food on our list - we had chinese, japanese, and some great breakfast options. 

We spent our time walking around the various neighborhoods of the downtown area, making sure to see the ritzy fashion shopping area as well as the gay neighborhood, which reminded us of Cap Hill. 

I surprised Eylen with tickets to go see the Yoko Ono exhibition at the art museum, which was fun. It was centered around interactive art that was meant to break down the barrier between audience and art object. There was a canvas that you were meant to drive a nail into, and there was even a stage where attendees were invited to strip down and climb into a black bag with another participant. Somebody actually did this while we were there!

One downside was the weather. It was awfully cold and rainy the whole time, and we were very bundled up. It was particulary soggy on Sunday, and we spent a lot of time driving around more or less aimlessly. We went to the Lynn Creek suspension bridge, and we stopped by a Value Village and a nice coffee shop called the East Cafe or something. But the final surprise of the trip made the whole day worth it.

Eylen also gave me the ultimate surprise on our final day - a tattoo! She had told me that Zox was totally booked out, and that there was no way we could get a slot. Instead, she told me, we were going to a metalworking class in Chinatown on Sunday evening. I had no idea what we were walking into, until she revealed it moments before we went into the studio! Now Eylen and I both have matching tattoos of Mimi. 

Today, I checked the mail and saw that [[The History of Philosophy (2021)]] had finally arrived. It seems like I pre-ordered this ages ago. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
