# Wednesday, July 07, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-07-06|previous]] | [[2021-07-08|next]]  [[2021-07 July|month]] |  [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Overdue tasks
```tasks
not done
path does not include Templates
path does not include 2021-07-07
due before 2021-07-08
```

## New tasks
- [x] #todo Take medicine 📅 2021-07-07
- [x] #todo Work out 📅 2021-07-07
- [x] #todo #imt Follow up with new contact 📅 2021-07-07 ✅ 2021-07-09
- [x] #todo Meditate 📅 2021-07-07
- [x] #todo #stash Get up to speed on stash stuff 📅 2021-07-08 ✅ 2021-07-08
- [x] #todo Eylen owes me $30.89 for food ✅ 2021-07-29
- [x] #todo #career Reach out to contact thru Boeing guy 📅 2021-07-07 ✅ 2021-07-08
- [ ] #todo Get new tires?

## Tasks from my [[personal kanban]]
I don't really want to use a kanban system for personal tasks anymore, so I'm going to import them all into this new system.

- [ ] #todo Schedule PCP meeting
- [x] #todo #imt Become a member of the [[DSA]] ✅ 2021-07-17
- [x] #todo #imt Become a member of the [[IWW]] ✅ 2021-07-29
- [ ] #todo Go shooting
- [ ] #todo Get a new car battery
- [ ] #todo #health Get a Hep B shot

## Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 
HUNT     ---> 
CREATE   ---> 
```

## Thoughts
Today I have [[2021-07-07 with Jen Raimone]]. I thought that we were doing branch today, but I got the date wrong and we're actually doing it on Saturday. I've been feeling very unproductive this whole week so far, and that's reflected in my pomodoros. Not so great. By this time last week I had done 15 pomodoros, and this week I've done only five. 

I feel like I'm in a haze today. I don't have the attention span to focus on anything, even video games. However, in the evening, I feel a lot better. Not sure what the deal was today, but I set up a new tasks plugin in [[Obsidian]]. Now I can keep track of tasks a little more effectively, and I can see all overdue tasks in each daily note. 

I think I will also start tagging tasks based on which project they're a part of, so that I can also compile tasks for certain areas, such as political work, project work, or life tasks. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
