# Thursday, June 24, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-23|previous]] | [[2021-06-25|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [x]  Work out
- [x]  Reach out to a friend
- [x] Email JW about Daniel's membership docs
- [ ] Buy chewable calcium pill (viactiv brand). I should be taking 1800 mg daily.
- [x] Log work hourss
- [x] Log other LM jobs that accept referrals (look in S. Fung slack)

## Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 3
HUNT     ---> 3
CREATE   ---> 
```

## Thoughts
Today I have my TA job, and then immediately as I end the day, I have a phone screen -> [[2021-06-24 PitchBook screen]]. I'm more nervous about this one than the last one, since now I see that I'll only get an opportunity like this every month or so at this rate. Although I'm excited about the Liberty Mutual role as well, and I expect to get an interview out of that one. 

I almost forgot that during my lunch break I have a nutritionist meeting -> [[2021-06-24 with Dr. Judson]]

Yesterday I bought a bunch of sugary snacks from the gas station, and I felt bad today. I got caught and I also feel pretty ashamed of myself for eating so badly in secret. I really need to find a way to overcome my [[sugar]] cravings, or else my health is just bound to get worse. I need to accept that I really do have [[Crohn's disease]], and I can't just eat whatever I want. Whenever I get caught or start feeling bad, I gain the strength and clarity to give up bad habits, but after a long time of no negative consequences for my health, I start to make bad decisions again. I need to find a way out of this contradiction, since even when I don't feel negative effects immediately, my inflammation is just slowly building up behind the scenes. 

The most probable result of this behavior continuing is me being in the hospital again. And I can't do that to [[Eylen]], I think that would really wreck her mental health. I think it really messes her up because she relies on me to be a stable force in her life that she can lean on, and when I become the one needing support and health, that's very disturbing to her. 

Push-ups so far: 45

## Eylen's options
1. Continue working at Faithlife
	1. Actually work everyday <- will tax health, not as bad as in winter, limits time for design, get insurance
	2. Not work somehow <- very challenging
2. Quit faithlife
	1. Pursue design and UX full time <- no insurance, less income, 
	2. Get some other bullshit job <- insurance, 

## Risk analysis for EK's health
Probability of getting a job in six months: 0.70
Probability of getting major illness in six months: 0.25

Probability of major illness before getting a job: 0.075

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
