# ðŸ“… Sunday, October 31, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-30|previous]] // [[2021-11-01|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to continue hosting my friends. This weekend has been nostalgic in a way, and somewhat of a bender. Over the course of the last three days, I've done more drugs than I normally consume in a month - ketamine, weed, and nitrous oxide. 

Evan arrived Thursday afternoon. Him, Tom, [[Eylen]], and I relaxed and talked in the evening, and then I took some [[ketamine]] and we planned to head to a nearby bar. I took a little too much, and started feeling dizzy and nauseous. I called Eylen and asked for her help, which she reluctantly gave. I think the experience of helping me triggered some recollection of my time in the hospital, which put her in a terrible mood. We sat silently on the couch until Evan and Tom returned, at which point we both decided to act as if nothing happened and continue the evening. 

On Friday, the gang assembled in the evening. Evan, Celeste, Cinder, and Tom, as well as Eylen and I of course. They drank and I took my ketamine, in smaller doses than I had taken on Thursday. That seemed to do the trick, and I slowly started to feel more energetic, sociable, and a little lightheaded and dissociative. Tom and Evan went to a nearby smoke shop and got some nitrous canisters, which were a blast to do on ket. After getting pretty rambunctious here, we walked to Kremewerk for a halloween-themed DJ set. Of course, we dropped off our coats at Christina's skyscraper apartment. Christina seems almost compelled to be an excellent host, or maybe she's processing the fact that she makes a lot of money. Either way, she offered drinks, and even cocaine to us all. I didn't take any, as I had my own supply of drugs for the night. 

After a long period of spending time there, and listening to Jpegmafia (which was a theme for the whole night), we finally headed to the club around 12:30 am. The vibe there was energetic and very LGBT, with Evan dancing and even kissing multiple other Asian gay men. There seemed to be an unusual concentration on the dance floor. 

After dancing until 3 am or so, we finally left the club and walked home. Of course, I had to push Eylen up the hill as usual, and we finally arrived home around 4 am. 

Yesterday, we went to Chinatown to have some dim sum, which was *really* good. Then, we walked to the waterfront and took a ride on the ferris wheel. We went home and watched *Black Swan* and took whippets. 

The final chapter of our weekend, today, we had ramen with the gang and Katy, who drove down from Bellingham. After that, we got boba and sat in Cal Anderson. It feels strange to wind down the weekend after such an intense series of nights, and so much drug use - especially since these are drugs that are relatively new to me. 

I think that ketamine is going to become part of my regular drug rotation. It's ideal for the party scenario, and I think it's well worth the cost, which is apparently $100 per gram. That amount would likely last me a few weeks at least, though, so I can afford it. I would really pay any price for a drug which allows me to get into the drunk mindset, without the risk of a hangover, which is the icing on top. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
