# Thursday, June 10, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-09|previous]] | [[2021-06-11|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [X]  Take medicine
- [X]  Work out
- [x]  Reach out to a friend
- [x] Follow up w Lee 
- [X] Ask if Dollar Tree sells leis
- [X] Ask Jacob to come visit Mimi on the 19th and 21st

```
PRODUCTIVITY POMODOROS TODAY (20 min): 2
ASYNC POMODOROS TODAY (20 min): 1
```

## Events
Today's another TA day. The final one for this module actually. We're getting a new couch today, an Article one! Generally I feel kind of #emotion/tired today but things are going well. The students in this module are a good group. 

## Thoughts
[[Eylen]] was telling me that her therapist said she was suffering from extended burnout due to my hospitalization in February, and also said that I was suffering from burnout as well. I think I agree with that. It's just been so hard to do all the tasks that have to get done around the house every day without any help. I can't keep the mess under control, or make healthy meals for myself or her. I can barely keep everything afloat. And her attitude towards the situation makes things hard. She tends to act like it's shocking that I can't keep things clean and neat, but also refuses to help out even when I've directly asked her to lend a hand. I've tried multiple times to just get her to take care of just one additional household chore, with no success. But I understand, she has really bad mental health, much worse than me. But I'm still getting close to the breaking point here, so I hope that Eylen gets better.

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
