# Wednesday, June 02, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-01|previous]]  | [[2021-06-03|next]] | [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]]
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [x] Take medicine 

## Thoughts
Today I have a [[remicade]] infusion. Whenever I have these, it always makes me think back to where I was two months ago when I got the last one. Last time, I was finishing up my [[wildfire classifier]] project. I had just gotten out of the hospital and still couldn't really eat anything. That was in late March I guess. 

I feel so much better than I have in years. I'm gaining weight and building muscle mass pretty quickly, so I think that means my nutrient absorption must be getting better since I'm pretty much eating the same quantity of food as I used to. I'm almost 140 at this point, and I actually want to slow down gaining weight! 

I guess it just goes to show that no matter how bad things get, they can always get better. But I shouldn't start slacking now, I need to continue to build muscle to combat my [[osteoperosis]] issues, and I should really dial in my [[diet]] to make sure that I keep the inflammation issues away. But overall, I think I'm on a great course towards being healthier. 

I really want to start climbing once I get a job and can afford a membership to a gym. That would be so fun! I miss feeling more active, like I did senior year of high school where I was climbing two afternoons a week and working out in the gym with my friends the other three days. That was great. I was probably the most fit I ever have been that year. But I don't feel like I had visible muscles, since I weighed a lot more than I do now, like 150 or something. 

We're going to visit Evan in LA in a few weeks, which I'm #emotion/excited about. It will be my first visit to California, and while I have some negative preconceptions about LA, I want to try and stay positive and not bring down the situation if it really isn't *that* bad.

Today I spent a lot of time editing my notes to remove unneeded `LINKS`. I feel like I should embrace a more organic approach, and just mention things in the text if they should be linked. Except of course in obvious situations like my daily note page, which needs to link back to my journal.

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
