# ðŸ“… Thursday, October 21, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-20|previous]] // [[2021-10-22|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to wrap up my final day of training at Atos ([[2021-10-21 Atos training]]), and the first day in my new workstation, which is really nice. It's just a more comfortable environment for me to spend my day in. 

Today I'm grateful for the fact that all my technololgy is working (fingers crossed ðŸ¤ž)!

I guess my goal for daily grades is like 40 right now. That will allow me to ramp up. I seem to be able to do like ten per hour at my current rate, so that's about four hours of work today. 

This job is already getting really boring. I hope that I can get in the flow when I get out of training, and it won't be this bad. The thing that's really bad right now is having to watch people grade, which is way more boring than actually grading sessions myself. 

I did some math and I found out that I'm basically getting $5 per session that I grade (after taxes). That's motivating. 

I finally feel like I sort of know what I'm doing with this job. I hope there's some way for me to see if I'm hitting the mark in the training bucket, I guess I'll ask Andrew about that when we meet tomorrow morning. I would feel really reassured if I could see that I was generally making the right call with those grades. It will feel nice to take the training wheels off and really get into the swing of this job. 

==I have an unlimited ORCA card!== During training today, somebody told me that all vendors get these. I really want to go pick one up at some point. Maybe [[Eylen]] and I can have a SundayFunday on the Microsoft campus and get our cards. 

## Leave request
For my leave request, I currently have three workdays of PTO, and 2 holidays. That means that I can have four total days off, so I just need to put in a leave request for Tuesday through Friday over the Thanksgiving week. 

## One-on-one with JCR
- National vs international bourgeoisie


# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
