# ðŸ“… Tuesday, December 14, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-13|previous]] // [[2021-12-15|next]] // [[2021-12 December|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for the sunny weather after a week of clouds. It really makes a difference.

If I could only do one thing today, I would return the hair dryer. It's getting to the point that I may be stuck with it unless I return it soon. 

I was thinking of posting about my [[Obsidian]] workflow. Maybe I could put it on my Medium blog?

Leon from [[Metis]] wrote me an email today offering to re-hire me as a TA again! It would be for three hours in the afternoon, two days per week. My gut reaction is to say no, but I feel like I should think it through before turning down an opportunity that just falls right in my lap. It's not every day that you get offered a flexible, part time job that pays $30 an hour and you know wouldn't interfere with your other work. 

Knowing that [[I have a tendency towards passivity]], I have to consciously work against that. Maybe I ought to take this job! It will just be 6 hours per week and it'll force me to stay in touch with the [[data science]] concepts that I've learned. I'm just being lazy, and that's why I don't want to take it - I just don't want to have to do a little more work. 

However, I should really think about losing 6 hours per week, when I'm already short on time in my life. I want to do some accounting of how many hours per week are taken up by each area of my life. 

```
Total waking hours per week: 112

Current working hours:       15 (if I work 3 hours each workday)

Current IMT hours:           11 (rounding up)
	Branch and tabling:          4.5
	Other meetings:              2
	Reading:                     4 (very rough estimate)

Free hours:                  86

Free hours if I take job:    80 (7% decrease in free time)
```

Ideas should be useful, not only true. Truth is a static property, while usefulness is a dynamic one. Some ideas that are true, are not useful, while some ideas which are *not* true can be useful in some situations. [[Abstractions should be useful]]. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
