# Wednesday, June 09, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-08|previous]] | [[2021-06-10|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [X]  Take medicine
- [X]  Work out
- [x]  Reach out to a friend
- [X] Recipes for modern health may 24

```
POMODOROS TODAY (20 min) = 5
```

## Events
Today I have my [[2021-06-09 with Jen Raimone]]. Then I have an optometrist appointment downtown.

## Thoughts
Ok Jen gave me a little kick in the ass. I need to be spending *a lot* more time looking for a job. That made me feel a little #emotion/stressed and eager to get to work on my hunt more seriously. 

Yesterday I was working with the instructor who gave me a technical interview during the bootcamp. I felt like I did really bad on the question he asked, since I had no idea what the answer was. However, he said that my response to that question was actually the reason he recommended me for a TA position! He said that it demonstrated that I was able to communicate well and get myself out of a tough position by calmly thinking through the process of how to solve a difficult problem. That made me feel #emotion/confident in my abilities. 

The bodycam footage of my arrest came in today. They sent me an hour of footage that included the officers charging the crowd, macing a ton of people indiscriminately, and arresting me of course. Watching it made me feel [[anger]] that they just got away with doing that, but what's done is done. There was pretty clear evidence that they just pulled Jeff down for no reason to arrest him, starting the whole chain of events that got me booked. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
