# ðŸ“… Sunday, November 14, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-13|previous]] // [[2021-11-15|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for my brainweb, and more and more for my [[thought cabinet]] specifically. I really feel like I'm moving towards a total commitment to the idea note format for all of my notes. The one thing still on my mind is how to incorporate other peoples' ideas into this system. Maybe I can have a note called "Trotsky argued the USSR became a degenerated [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]]" for instance. That would preserve a sense of separation between the ideas of others and my own ideas. This makes sense. 

I've also been thinking of how question notes can be a good organizing structure for my idea notes, beyond topic. For example, we can ask: [[How do Marxists approach oppression?]] 

I've also started reading [[Reconstruction (1988)]], which is a book about the Civil War and its social aftermath that Jeff got me. 

# Discussion with our realtor, Robert

## Timeline
He thinks we should submit an offer on Tuesday before noon. That's the deadline for their review date, and he expects to see mulitple offers.

We would plan on a 30 day closing period. On the day of closing, so 30 days after we have our offer accepted, we would need all of the closing costs available for transfer. 

## Short-term rentals
He said that these will likely *not* be allowed. Few places allow them.

## Earnest money deposit
This will be somewhere around 3% of the price, so around $15k for this home. We have 48 hours between when they accept our offer, and when we must get them the money.

## Escalation
He says that a $10k escalation isn't that competitive, but there's always a chance that they don't get any better offers. However, he wouldn't be surprised if this home sells for $600k or more. 

He recommends doing $5,000 increments because that's more competitive than smaller increments. 

## Closing costs
These tend to be about 3% of the price, and they would be dependent on the loan scenario. They would be higher if we were putting less down. About 1.5% of this closing cost will be escrow and title fees. 

## Pre-approval letter
This is required for the maximum amount in our escalation clause. Our lender should provide this to their agent. 

## Writing personal stories
Robert thinks this is ethically grey, and recommends against it as it seems desperate. 

## Waiving contingencies
We want to eliminate as many as possible. To be more competitive, he thinks we should waive our contingency based on the seller's disclosure, because we can see that before we put in an offer. 

We can also waive the inspection contingency, and the ten day period that we're given to verify the sale and title information. We can still make sure there are no liens on the property. 

## Numbers
- List price is $550,000
- We could escalate to $565,000
- Down payment of $113,000
- Monthly of $2,787
- 3.5% interest rate on the loan
- Eylen's *total* cash on hand = $136,000
- Patrick's = $5,000

## Upfront costs
- $113,000 down payment
- $16,950 closing costs
= $130,000 total upfront costs

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
