# Friday, September 10, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-09|previous]] // [[2021-09-11|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# Thoughts
Today my mission is to clean the house up and to be social this evening. Calla is going to be in town and has been asking [[Eylen]] to get drinks. Eylen doesn't want to be alone, so I'm coming along I guess!

Today I'm grateful for the fact that I was able to find a parking spot not too far from home. We're actually going to go ahead and start spending $150 monthly to get a parking spot at our building. There's just no point in owning a car when taking it anywhere is a downright nightmare. 

Yesterday, we played a lot of Cuphead. I actually defeated three bosses in a single day: the theater woman, the ghost train, and the mermaid. That made me feel accomplished and skilled. 

In this moment, I feel pretty hopelessly incapable of finding a job. Maybe I'll just be unemployed forever, living off of Eylen and using the medicaid insurance. 

Also, I'm really bored. I feel a compulsion to buy a new video game, but nothing on Steam seems remotely interesting to me. I should probably stretch or meditate or something to get my mind off of things. 

```
	(\___/)
	( 0,0 ) <(hoot)
	(     )
  ===m===m===
```

# Ideas for new band shirts
JPEGMAFIA ✅
Japanese Breakfast
Khruangbin
Molchat Doma
Mitski
Death Grips
The Avalanches

# Backup password for [[Seattle]] [[IMT]] account
Current password: 515151imt

krhs g68s vbyf

# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
