# Thursday, August 12, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-11|previous]] | [[2021-08-13|next]] | [[2021-08 August|month]] |[[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# Thoughts
At this point I'm not really keeping track of [[pomodoro]] anymore. It's too much friction honestly, and I don't think it's keeping me productive. Today and tomorrow are going to be really hot. The high today is 91, and tomorrow's high is 94. 

I realized that the SR National Congress is happening in eight weeks. I need to start looking into plane tickets!

I watched a funny and interesting video called "Dubai Is A Parody Of the 21st Century." It's about the failure of urban planning in the city. 

[[Eylen]] gave me some good insights into my job hunt. She got invited to a members-only forum for tech workers, and the people on there had a lot to say about the [[data science industry]]. Apparently it's just impossible to get a data science position without a masters degree and extensive industry experience. She said that their advice was either to try to become a business analyst and then work up, or go for full-stack development. I'm not sure what to do next, but I know that I should really work on the Stashlogix project more, as it's a great thing to have on my resume, and means so much more than the pet projects that I have on there. 

Today I'm grateful for the fact that in general, I like the climate of Washington. I really couldn't deal with living somewhere where the entire summer was like this. 

# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
