# Friday, May 28, 2021
`LINKS:` [[21-05-27|previous]]  | [[2021-05-29|next]] | [[2021-05 May|month]] | [[journal]]
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [x] Take medicine
- [X] Schedule optometrist ❗️❗️
- [X] Call Virginia Mason radiology to schedule bone density test and MRI ❗️
- [x] Email Lee with reading on [[fascism]] ([here](https://www.marxist.com/what-is-fascism-and-is-it-an-imminent-threat-today.htm))
- [x] Clean Mimi's litter
- [x] Update [[IMT]] sheets

## Thoughts
Today is the last day of my first module as TA. I think I did a pretty bad job lol, but next time I'll do better and actually review the material in depth before I'm answering questions about it. 

After seeing him yesterday, [[Jacob]] seems to be not doing so great. It seems like he's really dependent on weed to get through the day. I hope that when he moves to [[Seattle]] next month he can find healthy outlets to replace his dependency, and hopefully he gets some more friends and isn't relying on me as much for socialization, because to be honest it's hard to manage his needs and balance that with the other responsibilities that I attend to on a daily basis. 

[[Eylen]] didn't get the job that she really wanted. She had made it into the third round of interviews, but they said she just didn't have enough experience. It really upset her, but I think she's actually managing better than I thought she would. Although it's only been one day so we'll see how she feels today. She has a terrible habit of feeling like every job application is all-or-nothing, and that when she gets rejected it means that she'll never be able to find a job. 

I think that getting therapy will help with that mindset. It's a very warped way to view the world. She thinks that since she got rejected from three internships, that means that she has no chance, which is obviously such a small sample size to reach that conclusion. 

> [!info]
> Just got a cool new plugin that allows me to create multiple kinds of code blocks that can represent various functions such as a question, an example, or a criticism. 

I compiled all the most important (to me) events that happened on my birthday, [[November 7]]. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
