# ðŸ“… Tuesday, December 07, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-06|previous]] // [[2021-12-08|next]] // [[2021-12 December|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for my health. I can't think of much more to be grateful for today. I'm really bored and miss [[Eylen]]. I feel like I can't take care of myself without the excuse of taking care of her, and at this point, I'm not sure how I can even get back into the swing of taking care of us when she gets back.  

It was nice to have the house to myself for the first two days, but after that the thrill of being able to do "whatever I want" really wore off and I began to miss having a purpose for cooking, cleaning, etc. Maybe I just don't love myself as much as I love her or something. Or maybe [[I have a tendency towards passivity]] and this is usually counteracted by Eylen's needs. That seems like it's the real culprit. 

Maybe it would do me good to get out of the house and work at a coffee shop or something. I'll look into somewhere nearer than Cafe Vita. 

I decided to switch my pasword manager to Bit Defender. It's open source, free, and has a better UI. I should really be using more secure passwords. 

If I only get one thing done today, it will be to feed myself well three times. I haven't been eating well, just making whatever's most convinient. 

I had a really interesting thought today. 

When we analyze a topic, we must first begin with the concrete - our sense perceptions of the rules that govern the object in question. Then, we develop abstractions out of these impressions in order to apply these same rules to other instances of the object. Finally, we must move from abstract back to the concrete, applying our various abstractions to a specific instance of the phenomenon. [[Cognition consists of movement between the abstract and the concrete]]. 

# One-on-one with JT
- JCE stepping back
	- I should drop the one-on-one if I get stretched, prioritize active comrades
- Tabling location change
- Meeting location change
- Freeman contact
	- SRA involvement
- I should off-load a one-on-one to Chris

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
