# ðŸ“… Thursday, February 10, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-09|previous]] < [[2022-02 February|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-11|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
%%What did you do today, and how did it make you feel?%%
Freeman bailed on the one-on-one yesterday so it's happening today I hope. 

Janet Carson, the data engineer who I reached out to yesterday, got back to me today. She says that unlike many DE roles, her's is at a small company and therefore isn't using all the "cool kid" technolgies like distributed computing and cloud stuff. However, I think she could still tell me if the stash-o-matic project is going to be useful as a resume-builder, and maybe she could give me some pointers as to where I should go with that project. 

# Contact with Freeman
- Cascadia Workers Association
	- They do some mutual aid but have broader goals
	- They have more members than us
	- Different working groups depending on location
- Protest: Saturday at three at Westlake
	- Intervene?
- He would like to discuss Russia / Ukraine at some point soon

# Workday planning ([[Atos]])
With this new tool that we're grading in, I think I might be able to give myself a little better routine. Let's do the math and find what combination of grades and breaks I can do...

My workday consists of 480 minutes. I take 2 minutes on average per entity. My long-term goal is to do 45 entities a day. My current routine is to take a 13 minute break, and then to grade one entity. That means that in a given workday, my sessions ($s$) can be modeled as...

$$
s = \frac{480 \text{ min}}
		{15 \text{ min / work session}}
		\ \cdot 1 \text{ entity / work session}
		= 
		32 \text{ entities daily}
$$

This leaves me with around 10-13 entities to sprint through at some point during the day. If instead, I take a 20 minute break, and then grade two entities, we can see the difference...

$$
s = \frac{480 \text{ minutes}}
		{24 \text{ min per work session}}
		\ \cdot 2 \text{ entities per work session}
		= 40 \text{ entities daily}
$$

... leaving me with around five entities to sprint through at the end of the day. What if I push it? If I took a 30 minute break, and then did three entities...

$$
s = \frac{480 \text{min}}
		{36 \text{ min / work session}}
		\ \cdot 3 \text{ entities / work session}
		= 40 \text{ entities daily}
$$

ALT 1: 20min break, 4min grade (2 entities)

This ends up being 10 min per entity, leaving me with around 48 grades per day.

# Nerdle
I found a fun variant of Wordle that uses math equations. It can be found [here](https://nerdlegame.com). 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
