# ðŸ“… Tuesday, February 08, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-07|previous]] < [[2022-02 February|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-09|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
%%What did you do today, and how did it make you feel?%%
Today I feel pretty tired. Not sure why. I have a contact meeting with some person who reached out via Twitter, so that's interesting I guess. I still need to reach out to some data engineers, I don't know why I'm putting that off. Oh, also, we're submitting another offer on a house today. I really don't think we're going to get it, but if we did, that would be great. The place is really nice, and it's a great location. It's the type of place that I could see us living in for many many years. 

I called Grandmom today to ask if she could pitch in for a loan. She said she would have to crunch some numbers but could at least do a couple thousand. I don't really think that will make much of a difference honestly. Anything under $10k is small beans in the world of real estate around here unfortunately, which is an absurd thing to wrap your head around.

# Call with the lenders
- DTI = $3,900 monthly maximum debt (taxes, HOA, insurance included) // aka 49% of income
- Pre-approval good for 4 months
	- Ours expires Feb 27

# Contact with Eddy (twitter contact)
- Who we are
	- SR has around 430 members in ~30 cities
	- Part of the [[IMT]] which has over sections in over 40 countries, biggest sections are the [[UK]] and [[Pakistan]]. 
- What we do
	- Building a [[Marxism|Marxist]] leadership via political education, discipline, etc
	- Reading group, tabling, branch
- Their history
	- Some campus organization experience (NGO type shit)

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
