# ðŸ“… Saturday, April 23, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-04-22|previous]] < [[2022-04 April|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-04-24|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Lydia arrived yesterday afternoon and stayed the night with us. It was nice seeing her before she goes to South Dakota for four months. We hung out with Collin, Deb, and a few new people who were pretty cool. It's nice to meet new people and go out - we're really paying for the priveledge of living in such a lively and walkable area, and sometimes we don't take enough advantage. 

Today is the day of the Starbucks Workers United rally at Cal Anderson. We have some comrades coming down from BHAM to join us, it's supposedly going to be a massive turnout, but we will see. Regardless, it will be an excellent chance to talk to workers and spread our ideas, hopefully making a decent handful of contacts. 

Update: the rally was great! It wasn't that massive of a turnout, but it was still a few hundred people. Honestly, I was kind of dissapointed by the amount of affiliated leftists there relative to the rest of the crowd, since there weren't many unaffiliated workers to talk to. Regardless, we had decent sales, and got a bunch of contacts. It was good to see the four BHAM comrades, including some people that I met for the first time. After the rally, we got some food at H Mart (M2M mart technically) and sat outside enjoying the nice weather. It was 60 and sunny. I even got a sunburn on my neck, reminding me that I sould really get a facial moisturizer with some SPF. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```