# ðŸ“… Sunday, January 09, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-01-08|previous]] <--- [[2022-01 January|month]] // [[journal]] ---> [[2022-01-10|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
%%What did you do today, and how did it make you feel?%%
Right now, I'm sitting in Cafe Victrola. We went to Ava's bookstore earlier in order to get out of the house, and then [[Eylen]] went to a class at Raven. I spent my time by reading [[The History of Philosophy (2021)]], of which I've 90% completed. It's a little cold in here, since they have the windows open. I feel like that has to be due to the new [[COVID-19]] variant, which is very infectious apparently. I looked up some figures today that said around 12% of Washington's population have gotten COVID at some point througout the pandemic. I feel lucky that neither of us have gotten it, although it seems to be more or less inevitable at this point. My parents have gotten it, as well as Eylen's parents and an increasing number of our friends. It's really only a matter of time, despite the fact that we've both gotten our vaccine boosters. 

Living though a pandemic really adds a whole new dimension to life, and while this certainly hasn't been a positive experience, it is an intersting one. Of course, I haven't had any family members die from this, so if that was different I wouldn't have this perspective. 

I read an interesting article today that was criticizing the [[zettelkasten method]]. The main thrust was that complex [[PKM]] techniques tend to confuse a *means* of collecting and sorting information with a particular *end* that the info is being applied to. It seems valid to me, and applies to the idea of [[Begin projects with a use-case]]. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
