# ðŸ“… Saturday, January 01, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-31|previous]] // [[2022-01-02|next]] // [[2022-01 January|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for a fresh start to a new year. 

My top priority today is to relax, and get some lunch in Chinatown. I also want to remember the goal for this year, which is to put more of an emphasis on forming and maintaining relationships. I want to make this into some [[SMART goals]] at some point. 

When I went to Honey Court, I felt nostalgic for our friends, since the last time we ate there was with Evan and Cinder and others. I noticed that there were a couple large groups of people who had obviously gathered for the holidays. 

[[Eylen]] and I were taking about the benefits and drawbacks of journaling digitally versus analog-style. She made the point that in many years, it would be really nice for me to have something physical that I could hold on to, and I said that the *information* is the really valuable thing to look back on. I think she does have a point though, and it would actually be kind of cool to print my daily notes and bind them into a book or something. I would want to find somewhere to print for free though, since it would be 365 pages per year (assuming that every daily note is only one page long, which is certainly not true). 

I installed a new plugin, called tracker. With it, I can see statistics about total word count for folders, and I can make charts. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
