# ðŸ“… Sunday, May 08, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-05-07|previous]] < [[2022-05 May|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-05-09|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily 

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today I'm prepping for my [[2022-05-09 Indeed screen]]. I think it makes sense to have a note about the role as an [[Listing - Indeed Technical Analyst]]. 

I felt a bit out of it today. I had a dream that [[Eylen]] was cheating on me, and I woke up in a bad mood. As the day went on, I felt better, but then I was lost in my thoughts when we went on a walk to the park, and I still feel weird. Sometimes I don't think anyone understands what I'm really thinking about most of the time. It's like I'm living in my own world that I can't share with anyone else. I mean - just look at my notes in here. I've written over 2,200 notes as of today, and nobody has read the vast majority of them but me. I doubt anyone else will ever read this vault in any sort of comprehensive way. It's just me talking to myself through a computer program. 

Yesterday and today, it's been easier to get Eylen out of the house. She's more willing to go walk since we've been quarantined for over a week now. We walked to Cal Anderson and sat facing the dogs so that we could watch them play. That's always a fun activity. While we were there, she gave me a mock interview and then we walked to H Mart to grab a few ingredients for dinner and some snacks. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```