# ðŸ“… Friday, May 13, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-05-12|previous]] < [[2022-05 May|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-05-14|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today is the day of my [[Listing - Indeed Technical Analyst]] interview with the hiring manager. I'm a bit nervous, but I feel like it will be pretty similar to the phone screen in terms of the questions that I'm asked, and I should just play it cool and I will do great. I am genuinely qualified for this role, so I don't think there are any questions the interviewer can blindside me with. 

Update: the interview went well. Syed asked me about why [[MongoDB]] was being used at Stashlogix, as well as some other questions. He explained that the role was to be a self-starter who dives into the data to deliver insights for a presentation to individual product teams every two weeks. He said that the next steps would be an hour of live [[Python]] and [[SQL]] coding, followed by an hour of situational questions with Syed, and then a business panel interview and a product team panel interview. It would be a total of three or four hours of interviews, ideally on the same day. He had one criticism of my resume, that I should include some numbers, such as the size of the databases that I managed, and the dollar value of the tools that I created. 

I'm pretty nervous for the live coding, since I had to do a decent amount of googling to figure out the SQL question they gave me. I ought to do a bunch of challenges on Hackerrank and that other interview prep platform beforehand. I should just really cram. Python isn't going to be as much of a challenge I hope, as long as the question is in the same ballpark as the one they gave me for the take-home. 

After the interview, we're attending a [[screenprinting]] open session and then going to hang out with Rae and Jordan. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```