# ðŸ“… Tuesday, March 01, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-28|previous]] < [[2022-03 March|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-03-02|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today is Christine's 19th birthday, and the start of March. We're going down to celebrate with Christine this evening, and we're going over to Rapport in a little bit to relax and do some work. I've been feeling really stuck on the stashlogix project. I don't really know where to begin or what I'm really doing. It's hard to work within somebody else's code instead of building my own. 

I want to replace the static daily goal in my current [[Atos]] google sheet. I really want to know how many sessions I have to do in order to increase my daily average to a goal. I'm not sure how to do this. 

[[Eylen]] and I created BFF accounts on Bumble in order to meet new people. She was saying that there were lots of cool people on there, but there aren't as many cool or interesting guys. Most people are transplant tech workers who want to find drinking partners lol. I might as well create one though, the worst thing that could happen is that I don't find anyone interesting. 

Today we decided to go to Rapport and hang out, rather than sitting at home. I really enjoy the ambience of a coffee shop, where I can sit and do the things that I would be doing at home anyway, but in a nice environment. The only thing I don't like about Rapport is that it gets a bit hot honestly, even though it's still cold outside. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
