---
origin: 2022-05-27
---
# ðŸ“… Friday, May 27, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-05-26|previous]] < [[2022-05 May|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-05-28|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
I'm expecting the offer letter from Indeed today. They said they would have it to my yesterday, but I'm trying not to worry too much - it's just a bureaucratic process of writing a contract, they've already made their decision. I ended up getting the offer, and they proposed a base salary of $78,000 where the range ended at $75k! I'm going to ask for a 15% above the base salary, for a base of $90,000. I also found out there's at least a 10% bonus each quarter, so that increases the TC a lot. 

UPDATE: I accepted the recruiter's counter offer with these terms:

$82,000           base salary
$8,200             annual bonus
$2,554.69        first-year RSU cash value
**$92,754.69     total first-year compensation**

This means that our household gross income is now over $250,000!!! Holy shit. I looked up our income percentile nationally - we're now in the [93rd percentile](https://dqydj.com/household-income-percentile-calculator/). 

There was really low attendance at the reading group last night, so we're pushing the reading until next meeting. I sent a reminder that comrades should send apologies. I know I go pretty easy on people, and sometimes I need to counteract that tendency. It's not that hard to tell us you can't come to a meeting. 

I had a bit of a scare with the GitHub backup of my vault today. Some files got corrupted, so I think I'm going to store it in Google Drive instead. However, I don't think that Drive really functions as a *backup,* more as a sync method. So I have to look into that. 

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```