# Metis Notes for Wednesday, Jan 6th
`TAGS:` #meeting/career

---
> [!info]
> Today is the third day of [[metis week 1]]. 
- Schedule
	- Pair programming 8:30-10
	- Project time
	- Pair discussion (?)
	- Project starter discussion
	- Lunch
	- Matplotlib lecture

## Pair programming discussion
The first problem asked us to create a function that could guess a number between 1 and 100. If the guess is too high, the function would try again lower, etc. If we had to make it really quick, we could just do a [[loops|while loop]] that keeps making random guesses until it gets it right. The time [[complexity]] of this code would be really high because maybe it would *never* get the right number. Theoretically, it has the potential to be infinite. By using random selection, we give up control, and should avoid this kind of thing. 

Another solution would be to brute force the problem. We could just loop through all the numbers one by one and cross them off until we get it. The complexity of this one is $O(n)=n$, since complexity would increase as the length of the range increases.

Binary search is an improvement over this. We create low and high limits to the random search, and guess is equal to `(low+high)//2`. We alter the values of low and high when we miss the right answer. We can start at halfway through the range (50) to have the ideal starting point. Complexity here is a little bit tricky. $O(n)=log_2(n)$ because dividing the range by half skips past more and more numbers as the range increases. That means the efficiency per number increases as the length of n increases. Note: in computer programming, we often use $log_2$ instead of the standard $log_{10}$ when we talk about complexity. 

[[logarithms|Logarithmic]] complexity is very powerful. In some cases it can be over 100x faster than a linear process. 

- Problem 2 asked us to take a very long string of numbers, and find the subset of length d that had the highest product. 
	- We could make a sliding window..
```python
def maxproduct(s,d):
	mp = 0 
	for i in range(len(s)-d+1):
		substring = s[i:i+d]
		np.prod([int(v) for v in substring])
		if p>mp:
			mp = p
	return mp
```
- ...
	- This solution works, but what is the complexity? There's a for loop, and another nested for loop. The complexity would be $n^2$. I'm not sure why that really is, but it has to do with taking the derivative of the relationship between n and d. If the sliding window size, d, is neither really big or really small, that decreases the complexity, but the worse case scenario is $n^2$.
	- But this isn't the optimal solution. We can reduce the complexity to $O(n)=n$. If I want to see how this would work, I should check out the ipynb for this pair problem, called `pair2_guessnum_solution.ipynb`. 
	- This shit is complicated lol. we usually dont have to worry about this because the libraries and packages we use have already been optimized for our purposes. But its good to know what this stuff means on a conceptual level. 
	- 20,000 lines of code might run in 2 seconds, but 2 lines of code might take a month. It just depends on the complexity!

# Lecture - [[MTA EDA]] challenge questions
- We should really have followed these challenge questions lol... they put you on the right track. 
- I'm anxious about where we are with the project. We basically haven't done anything in the last 3 days and our presentation is on Friday. We need to get into gear. I guess that needs to be my role. 

# Lecture - [[matplotlib]]
- Not the prettiest, but the goto to get the job done
- Similar to matlab
- When we import, set `%config InlineBackend.figure_format = 'svg'` to increase plot image quality
- We can add lots of chart elements by just executing things like `plt.title()`, `plt.xlabel()`, etc. 
- We can add a gridline using `plt.grid()`. If we want to change the tics manually, we can do so.

```python
plt.plot(data_list)
plt.grid()
ticks_x = np.linspace(0, 3, 10) #creating xtics
ticks_y = np.linspace(1, 3, 3) #creating ytics
plt.xticks(ticks_x)
plt.yticks(ticks_y);
```

- We can put multiple lines on a plot by calling `plt.plot()` twice. They will build off each other just like how the individual commands like `plt.title()` and others do. 
- Avoid using green and red as lots of people are colorblind.
- To add a legend, use `plt.legend()` and we can label our [[data]] like this... 
	- `plt.legend(['label 1', 'label 2'])`
- Colors are pretty intuitive, but remember that black is indicated by k, because b is already taken by blue. 

