# Metis Notes for Thursday, Jan 21st
#meeting/career

---
We're nearing the end of [[metis week 3]]. Today we are scheduled to do some pair programming, and then we have a full day of working on our projects, which we will present tomorrow!

# Pair problem
> If you're named Danny Kyung or Matthew Emes, it opens up the possibility of justifying your use of usernames such as [dank](https://github.com/dank) or [memes](https://github.com/memes). Your task is to find the longest word such that it satisfies the criteria - that is, it is a substring of the given string but not necessarily consecutively (we can call it a sparse substring). If there are multiple words of same maximum length, output all of them. You may use the the [Enable word list](http://norvig.com/ngrams/enable1.txt), or some other reasonable English word list. Every word in your output must appear in your word list.
> If the name is "Cat Person", 'cap', 'ape', 'ten' are all sparse substrings. You can use (or not use) any letter in the name, you just can't rearrange them, you have to use them in the order they appear in the original name. Space doesn't matter. You can throw out the spaces and lowercase everything.

C A T P E R S O N

C
C A
==C A T==
C A T P
C A T P E 
C A T P E R
C A T P E R S
C A T P E R S O
==C A T P E R S O N==


This will get us all substrings that have one character dropped...
```python
sub = []
for i in range(len(string)):
	sub.append = string[:i] + string[i+1]
```

But we can't continue with the sliding windows method because some characters that aren't adjacent could form substrings. 

For every string of length *n*, there are $2^n-1$ possible substrings. For each index position, we have a [[binary]] choice of wether to include it or not. We subtract one to remove the empty string option from the list of combinations. 

We don't like the complexity here. The scale here is huge. For-[[loops]] cannot get us here, because we would need *n* for [[loops]]. Therefore, we need [[recursion]]. 

Recursion is the idea of a function that calls itself. Using that concept, we can create *n* for-[[loops]]. Recursion is the heavy metal of [[data science]]. It isn't for everyone. Half the [[data]] scientists working in the field have no experience with it at all!

We can rewrite the string as a series of ones and zeros. If it's a one, it will be included in the substring, a zero is dropped. The list of all possible combinations of ones and zeros are all the permutations. 

```python
abc		111
a_c		101
ab_		110
_bc		011
```

We could write a function that takes the numbers from 1 to *n* and convert it to [[binary]]! Then we would be able to understand all the permutations.

# Ridge family time
- We did a poll to see where everyone is at with [[natural amenity regression]]. 
- Presentations
	- We will know order by end of day today.
	- We will split into 2 rooms, presentations will take most of the day, but we have a short [[SQL]] setup thing later in the day. 
	- 5 minute presentations, plus 5 min Q and A1