# Metis Notes for Friday, March 12th
#meeting/career

--- 
> [!info]
> Today is the final day of [[metis week 10]]. 

## Pair: sort
Our task was to create a sorting algorithm and time it. 

```python
def mySort(inputlist):
	switched = True
	
	while switched:
		switched = False
		for i in range(len(inputlist)):
			if inputlist[i] < inputlist[i+1]:
				inputlist[i], inputlist[i+1] = inputlist[i+1], inputlist[i]
				switched = True
	
	return inputlist	
```

For the worst-case scenario, when `inputlist = [10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1]`, this function takes 13.9 microseconds and has a time complexity of $O(n^3)$. 

If we want to be able to find, insert, and remove numbers in this sorted list, we can add some functionality. 

```python
def find(inputlist, num):
	sortedlist = mySort(inputlist)
	
	for i in range(len(sortedlist)):
        if sortedlist[i] == number:
            return i
    return -1

def insert(inputlist, num):
	sortedlist = mySort(inputlist):
	
	for i in range(len(sortedlist)):
        if sortedlist[i] > number:
            sortedlist.insert(i, number)
            return sortedlist
		
def remove(inputlist, num):
	for i in range(len(sortedlist)):
		if sortedlist[i] == number:
			sortedlist.pop(i)
			return sortedlist

    return sortedlist  
```

With the `insert()` and `find()` functions, we could speed things up by implementing [[binary search]]. 

## Investigation - [[computer vision]]
- What is vision?
	- The earliest eye was in single celled organisms with photo receptors that were sensitive to light
	- Eyes evolved to detect light direction more sharply, and eventually shapes and colors. 
	- Our eyes are the second most complex organ in our body, after our brain.
	- Vision processing refers to the brain's ability to interpret visual info. This is more complex than the way that we actually get the visual info
- History of computer vision
	- Vision was discovered to be hierarchical. We first see lines and edges, and then we see shapes and colors. Only after we have detected these things, does high-level visual processing occur. 
	- This idea is the foundation of [[computer vision]].
	- There are low, medium, and high level computer vision tasks. These range from resizing or changing exposure, to deepfakes and [[GANs]]. 
	- After the first [[neural network]] was developed in the 90s, the field really heated up. 
	- Face detection became a thing, and we can use this in `OpenCV` which is a computer vision library in python. 
- Face detection
	- Uses Haar features. These are features that appear on human faces that can be used to identify people. We can group these features into different stages of classifiers, and group them from simple to complex. Using this, we can move iteratively through images to detect faces, using simple methods, and then using more complex methods if we have to. 
- AlexNet
	- This was a deep NN developed in 2012, and was a huge breakthrough. 
	- Error rates fell to just a few percent. Deep NNs are now the standard for image recognition
- Darknet
	- This does lots of cool stuff.
	- YOLO: you only look once. It's an excellent pretrained image detector. 
- The bottleneck is manually labelling the images for training. We have to do this when the pretrained models don't have the images we want to detect.
- This can be avoided by using self-supervised learning. Last week, FaceBook announced SEER which used IG images to self-supervise its own classification. They claim that it has better performance than any other image detector! 