#  Metis Notes for Thursday, 3-25-21
`LINKS:` [[metis week 12]]
#meeting/career

---
Today the only notes I have are from an employer panel. 

## [[career]] workshop - employer panel
This is a panel of four companies from the industry. CapGemini, Savos Learning (aka Pearson), United Airlines, Yipit [[data]]. 

### Intros
Marianne Langner: 
- been with ==savos== [[data science]] project manager for 2 years. 
- biomedical enginner with focus in body armor, transitionded hard to data sci

Glen Aronson: 
- alum from NYC metis.
- sattelite imagery analysis background, now at ==capgemini==
- [[data science]] whos building a datalake for disney. 

Jake Cheong
- Summer 2019 graduate from Metis
- Data scientist at ==capgemini==

Peter Ilhardt
- Alum from summer 19.
- Geology major
- ==Capgemini== data scientist for a year
- Doing drug price optimization for CVS

Tom 
- Director of technical operations at ==united arilines==
- Oversees six divisions of data scientists
- Predictive maintainance, inventory forecasting, etc.
- Been there for almost 10 years

Peter Martin
- Background in finance
- Spring 2019 bootcamp grad
- At ==yipit data== as a data analyst and equity researcher

Pavel Dekhman
- Graduated Metis in fall 2019
- Works at ==yipit data== like Peter Martin

### Questions
> Elaborate on how your company leverages data and uses data science.

*Savos Learning*
Optimizing 'digital implementations' of learning projects. Predictive analysis on how changes to curriculum impact state testing scores. COVID caused usage for online tools to go 4x overnight. 

*Capgemini*
Global consulting firm based out of France. Data sci team based out of [[USA]]. They help big companies with data-related problems. Everything from predictive tools to [[sentiment analysis]] to optimizing supply chains. Some projects they're working on now include using [[computer vision]] to detect utility poles. 

*United Airlines*
United uses data science to predict when airplane parts are going to need maintainance. There are 6 data science divisions, and 30 overall across the company. United also has lots of data going on with their pricing, their rewards programs, etc. They set routes through analytics. United is now supplementing travel routes through non-airline methods, such as using buses for low-traffic routes. [[NLP|Natural langauge processing]] is used to sort through employee logs to classify what patterns exist. 

*Yipit Data*
Sales forecasting, alternative data such as transaction data and webscraping. They have 200 employees, with 50 on the data side of things. They have product teams that focus on certain industries. 

> What candidates are you looking for? What is the interview process look like? Are you currently hiring?

*Yipit Data*
Their entry level data role is Data Specialist. They look for an understanding of how to work with data. You don't have to be a Python or [[SQL]] savant, but it's helpful. They want people to know the correct questions to ask, and know how to make defensible adjustments to the data. They value persistence, attention to detail, since the client base has very high standards. Yipit Data is currently hiring for data specialists! 

*United Airlines*
- They look for business aptitide. 
- They need to have the end goal in mind throughout the whole process
- Data science is integrated into the whole operation, not siloed away in a cave
- They give a case study as if the applicant was a client. They also do a previous project presentation to demonstrate communication skills and business aptitude. 
- They aren't hiring right now on his team. They just hired a Metis graduate though. 
- United is hiring in general, just not on Tom's team. 

*Capgemini*
- Three things to look for in a candidate
	- Well rounded candidates (stats, algorithms, way of thinging about probs)
	- Do they know data engineering fundamentals? Gotta know [[cloud computing]] and streaming data.
	- Do they have clear and accurate communciation skills? Be right about what you say, have emotional intelligence and relationship skills.
- They do an online assessment, then a tech interview and up the chain from there with a presentation. 
- Lots of openings! 

*Savos Learning*
- Starts with HR, then moves to a hiring manager with an interview. They get interviews with lots of people from across the organization to get a cross section of the ways that they have to fit in. 
- Looking for well rounded data scientists. The team is small so each person has to know the whole pipeline.
- Gotta understand what the client wants. 
- Gotta have communication skills. If you can't explain it, it doesn't matter. 
- Gotta have a mindset of iteration. Projects don't have all the requirements up front, just gotta run trials and refine. 
- They're currently hiring! savos.com 

> How does your company analyze and predict in a reliable fashion when dealing with unprecedented events (COVID)?

United has to invent new tools. They can't price tickets based on past performance, so they have to look at public health and perception data to try and understand who's comfortable travelling, and when and where they will travel. This is based on a lot of projections so there are a few models that they have running in parallel. They have best and worst case scenarios for the outbreak. This is how they hedge their bets in terms of number of pilots to hire, where to keep airplanes, when to schedule flights, and how to price tickets. 

Capgemini has had to transition to meeting with clients online instead of in-person. Types of projects have changed due to [[COVID-19]]. 

> For scraped data, what QC process do you use to ensure [[accuracy]]? Do you work with short-term or long-term forecasting in terms of finance?

Yipit Data has a proprietary scraping tool that sidesteps many of the common scraping headaches. In terms of clientel, they work with both short and long-term funds. Each have their own needs. 

> Do your companies have educational programs to keep data scientists up to speed?

- Savos doesn't.
- United has a structure of best practices that they teach. 
	- How to get capital
	- How to introduce decison-makers
	- How to actually manage the projects
- Capgemini has such a wide range of work that any training has to be supported through third party things like certifications. 

> Data scientists tend to help guide decisionmakers. Is there a path for data scientists to make decions themselves, what interactions are there bewteen technical and non technical people?

United
- Tom pushes data scientists to go towards decisonmaking roles
- Decisionmakers don't have the expertise in the data, so domain knowlede is valuable.

Savos
- Project managers act as translators between the technical and non-technical worlds. 

> Final piece of advice for graduates

Glen Aronson: keep your spirits up. 

Marianne: as we job hunt, look for cultural fit. Ask questions about how the company handled covid to gauge if they care about their employees.

Peter: just be persistent in reachingout to as many people as possible. Have a low threshold for reaching out. 

Pavel: stop and think about what you loved about the bootcamp. Think about what you like to do and tailor your job search based on that. It will make it easier to get through all the interviews and stuff. 

Jake: don't get sad if you get rejected, you will eventually succeed.

Peter: Keep learning and expanding your knowledge. Keep doing projects to stay sharp. Play with new tools that you didn't know before. 

Tom: morale is important. Stay excited. Even after you get a job, find a way to keep the big picture in mind. Don't get crushed by the monotony

### My questions
