## The 27th Week of 2021 (June)
`LINKS:` [[journal]]

---
## My weekly reflection
The central theme of this week was the intense heatwave that we felt here in the PNW. The high was 97 on Sunday, 102 on Monday. This made those days really hellish, since we don't have AC and only have one shitty fan. Our candles were tilting sideways and all our coconut oil turned to clear liquid. It was basically impossible to get anything done except sit and sweat.

As the weather cooled, I was able to get a lot more productive. I finally got Dad to call me and walk me through how the data were structured in the [[stash-o-matic database]]. After that, I was able to really get some things done. I felt confident enough in the work that I had done so far to add “Data Scientist at Stashlogix" to my resume, and I'm hoping to get more leads because it adds work experience. 

[[Jacob]] and I were planning on going camping this weekend, but we decided to go sometime else because all the campsites would be taken due to the Fourth of July being soon. At the end of the week, [[Eylen]] and I got the game Cuphead, which we spent a lot of time playing on Friday and Saturday. 

## Week at a glance
- Sunday: [[2021-06-27]]
- Monday: [[2021-06-28]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-06-29]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-06-30]]
- Thursday: [[2021-07-01]]
- Friday: [[2021-07-02]]
- Saturday: [[2021-07-03]]

## Weekly pomodoros
```
            S  M  T  W  T  F  S  |
LEARN  ---> 0  4  2  0  2  0  0  | (8/15) or 3 per workday
HUNT   ---> 0  1  1  0  5  4  0  | (11/10) or 2 per workday
CREATE ---> 0  0  7  0  2  2  3  | (14/30) or 6 per workday
```

I spent 2 hours and 40 minutes learning new concepts, 3 hours and 40 minutes job hunting, and four hours and 40 minutes working on projects. In total, I spent 11 hours being productive this week. That's pretty good considering that I didn't work at all on Wednesday, and it was hotter than hell on Sunday and Monday. 