# 2021-03-29 meeting with Ashley Judson
`LINKS:` [[health meetings]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/health

---
- She would encourage increasing fiber intake.
- Fiber rich veggies are good.
- I can just omit these from my caloric intake because they don't add up to much.
- Predisone increases appitite, so we should track my appetite so I don't trend back downward.
- The only way to know for sure would be to reintroduce something and see if my symptoms come back. 
- Gluten can be quite inflammatory, but dairy is more hit or miss. If I want to reintroduce dairy, try lactose free or high probiotic stuff. The lactose enzyme is a bad actor for crohns. 
- Lactose free greek yogurt could be a good option (google "Green Valley")
- If I'm not flaring, I need fiber at every meal to keep inflammation away. I can start with things cooked, like cooked dark leafy greens or carrots. Sweet potatoes have more fiber than potatoes generally. Bok choy or cabbage can be good for fiber.
- Steamed broccoli can be good for me. 
- I should start with cooked veggies, and then see how I tolerate them. I can even move towards less cooked or even raw stuff if I tolerate it well. 
- Berries and other fruit are also good for me to introduce. Start with canned stuff or cooked stuff, and then move up to raw apples, etc. 
- We don't want to overload my diet with fiber. This will cause GI symptoms in anyone, not just because of Crohns. Don't add too much too quickly, just shoot for 5g per day at first. 
- Variety is important! 
- NERVA is an app that might do both calorie tracking and symptom management.