# Metis Notes for Thursday, Janurary 7th
`LINKS:` [[metis week 1]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/career

---
The schedule today is to do some pair programming as usual, then an hour of project time, followed by two hours of lecture, lunch, 30 min of project work, another short lecture, and then project work for the rest of the day. 

# Pair programming
Our goal is to find the largest prime number factor of a given number. The way that my group ended up making this work was to create a bunch of nested [[loops]] and stuff, which is pretty complex.

Our solution:
```python
def largest_prime_factor(number):  
	list1= []  
	for divisor in range(1, 1+number//2):   
		if number%divisor==0:  
			list1.append(divisor)  
 
	for num in list1\[::-1\]:  
		for i in range(2, num-1):   
			if num%i==0:  
				break  
				
			return num " is the largest prime factor of " number
```

Solution 1 (slowest): the compexity here is $O(n)=n^2$
```python
def isPrime(n):
	for i in range(2,n):
		if n%i ==0:
			return False
	return True

def largestPrimeFactor(n):
	for i in range(n,1,-1):
		if n%i==0:
			if isPrime(i):
				return i
```

Solution 2 (slow): complexity of $O(n)=n^{3/4}$. We can loop to the square root of n instead of n. 
```python
def isPrime(n):
    for i in range(2,int(n**0.5)+1):
        if n%i==0:
            return False
    return True

def largestPrimeFactor(n):
    candidate=n
    for i in range(2,int(n**0.5)+1):
        if n%i==0:
            if isPrime(n//i):
                return n//i
            elif isPrime(i):
                candidate=i
    return candidate
```

Solution 3 (fast): complexity of $O(n)=\sqrt{n}$
```python
def largestPrimeFactor(n):
    i=2
    while i<=n**0.5:
        if n%i==0:
            n = n//i
        else:
            # we keep adding 2 since it makes no sense to divide by even numbers (edge case is i==2 where we add 1)
            if i==2:
                i=3
            else:
                i+=2
    return n
```

We can actually find the highest prime factor by just dividing the number by 2 until it isn't divisible by 2, and then dividing it by three, and so on until the number isn't divisible by anything except by itself and 1. And it's fast because there's only one loop happening here. 

# Lecture - [[pythonic style]]
- Writing good code is a soft skill we need to have for the long haul
- Not all [[data]] scientists have a good base in coding. Sometimes a data sci team doesn't even put their code into production, another team might do that. 
- Our code is a balance between working well, looking good, and being written fast. You can't do all three all the time
- Code with lots of variables that are just a letter, no comments at all, no docstring, they just suck. Code like this is not readable at all. 
	- If we needed to modify this code, we would have a hard time
- The ultimate goal of [[data science]] is communication! If your manager / team / client can't understand what the analysis means, then the analysis is no good. 
- Communication exists...
	- Between you and the engineers who implement the code
	- Between you and other data scientists
	- Between you and your boss
	- Between you and future-you who will be looking back on the code
- Code is written for people, not for machines. People need to be able to read the code
- How can we write good code? We got options.
	- Style guides like PEP8, PEP257, or the [Google Python Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html)
	- Use a Linter
- Linters
	- They're like spell check for code. Connect it to a style guide and it will tell you if you've messed anything up
	- Pylint is recommended by Google's style guide but there are lots of options
	- You can apply it in a text editor, or you can run it in [[command line]] on a certain .py file
- Docstrings
	- Use them to tell others what your functions do, how to use them, etc. 
	- This is what we see when we hit shift-tab on a function. 
- Inline comments
	- Don't put them everywhere, just explain the tricky parts at a high level. 
	- Explain the logic, not the syntax
- Good code speaks for itself. 
- Code style for metis
	- For [[Jupyter Notebook]], we can install some beautifiers. We can also edit code externally and bring it into jupyter if we want to be able to use a linter on it. 
	- It's better to write complex functions in a text editor, and use notebooks to tie our workflow together and import those functions into the notebook instead of writing them in the notebook itself.

# Lecture - [[presentations]]
- Agenda
	- Content
	- Slides
	- Text
	- Images
	- Audience
	- Presentation
- First up, content
	- Introduction comes first, with motivation and goals for the project
	- 1-2 slides to talk about data, models, metrics, tools. Audience wants to know what you did, but mainly wants to know about the results. 
		- Don't talk about the ins and outs of your actual process. Nobody cares. Just say you used so and so data, in order to find blah blah blah. 
	- Results
		- What were the results, and what do they really mean (applied)
	- Conclusion
		- So what, why should we care? Tie into the introduction with this part. 
		- If someone is remembering one slide, it should be this one. 
	- Future work
		- If you had more time, what would you do?
		- This depends on context. Some say that you shouldn't do one unless you actually expect to do the follow up, but in academia one is almost always required. 
	- Appendix
		- Everything that didn't make it into the presentation but still belongs there. 
	- Get comfy with the idea that most of your work won't make it into the final presentation. All the work that you did that didnt really go anywhere gets cut, no matter how long you worked on it. 
	- If it doesnt add to the story, cut it out.
	- What should we include?
		- Project work goes in a very wiggly line from beginning and end, but we are presenting a straight line from start to finish. All the important wiggles go into the appendix. 
- Slides!
	- Perfection is where there is nothing left to take away. 
	- Every slide should be essential and have a flow to them. 
	- Reading is more attention-grabbing than anything else. 
		- Don't have text on your slides and also try and get people to pay attention to you! They will read and not listen. 
		- Keep text brief on the slides if you're going to talk over them, or give them time to read if you want them to read a bunch. **Less than 30 words per slide**. 
	- Avoid unnecessary animations. They are just weird and confuse people. 
	- Slide transitions are also distracting and mentally tiring for your audience. 
	- We should ask if color is helping or hurting our presentation. 
	- Align things right. This is basic. 
	- Spend 1-2 minutes per slide
- Text
	- Font size should be readable. Ideally, test it out on a projector and see what it looks like from the back of a room. 
	- Colors depend on contrast. Maximize contrast to maximize impact of text. 
	- Avoid gradients because they can't be read across all colors. 
- Images
	- Use high definition images, not cartoons or something grainy. Duh.
	- We can find photos on google search or istockphoto. Make sure images are labeled for reuse on google so that you don't get in trouble in a professional setting. 
	- Save images of our work as SVGs to have better quality.
	- Charts
		- Explain those charts! Make sure that people really know what is going on in the image even if they have no background in the topic. 
- Audience
	- Know the background of your audience. Your language, examples, humor, and overall topic is dependent on the audience. The level of expertise is a crucial factor that determines the approach you should take. 
	- When in doubt, over-explain your topic. Even an expert won't mind you explaining how stuff works but a beginner will be totally lost if you move too fast. 
	- The audience for [[MTA EDA]] is the client. They are more of a business / results oriented audience. In the future, we should keep a business application in mind for our ideas.
- Presentation
	- Speak slowly, pause often. The audience needs time to reflect and think about what you're saying. Silence and pauses in the presentation is ok!
	- Be energetic. Excitement is contagious
	- Loud and clear. 
	- Avoid verbal ticks like um.
	- Know the info! If it's on the slide, be able to explain and justify your methodology and decisions. 
	- Rehearse and practice. 
	- When presenting on Zoom, there are more considerations. That makes practice even more important. 
		- Elevate the computer, so that you aren't "talking down" to your audience. 
	- Stay positive, even when things went wrong in your project. Not every project will end well, lol. Sometimes the model just doesn't work or there isn't a relationship. When this happens, focus on what you learned and what you would try next time. 
	- Stay on time. Don't go over the limit.
- Storytelling
	- Have three takeaways at most. That's the most people will really remember
	- Be aware that you're making an argument. You have to support each idea with evidence and logic.
	- Have fun! Don't look like you're dying inside. 

# Lecture - [[seaborn]]
[[seaborn]] is built on top of [[matplotlib]], and is named after Sam Seaborn from the West Wing TV show. Lots of people like seaborn because the defaults are prettier than matplotlib.

Seaborn also has defaults for more complex plots that matplotlib takes more tweaking to do. We can do *kernel density estimation,* a non-parametric way to estimate the [[probability density function]] of a random variable. We plot this using `sns.kdeplot()`.

For a simple bar plot, we execute `sns.barplot(x,y,data)`. X and Y are the labels, and it pulls the data from the third argument.

We can create box plots using `sns.boxplot()`, and violin plots using `sns.violinplot()`. See a pattern here?

Pair plots compare every column with every other column. They're good for shotgunning your data and looking for patterns as part of the third workflow step, [[exploratory data analysis]]. We can create these using `sns.pairplot(data)`.