# Metis Notes for Wed, March 10th
`LINKS:` [[metis week 10]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/career

---
Today is a freeform review day, where we will go over concepts from the whole course to get a bit of a refresher. In the afternoon, we will have a [[career]] workshop about [[data science]] interviews. 

## Recommendation
The main types of [[recommendation]] are *collaborative filtering* and *content based filtering.* For collaborative filtering, we find user-product combinations and then we recommend products based on what similar users liked. For example, if user A really likes *Toy Story* and *Madagascar,* and user B likes *Madagascar,* maybe user B would like *Toy Story* too. This method has nothing to do with the content of the products or the user's attributes besides their product history. 

One issue with collaborative filtering is the *cold start problem.* How do you set this system up when you have no user history? We would just have to recommend a new user the most popular products, and allow their recommendation results to get better and better over time.

On the other hand, content based filtering works based on the features of the products themselves. For example, if user A like the Avengers, and we categorize the Avengers movie with the attributes `['action','blockbuster','superhero']`, then they might also like Spiderman if we characterize Spiderman as having these features as well. This doesn't rely on user information, and is a way to get around the cold start problem. But we have to create these features somehow, and if we get it wrong our recommendation engine will suck. 

Sometimes people can combine these two approaches. At first, when we don't have user information, we can use content based filtering. Then we can slowly leverage the user information as it flows in, and supplement our content based algorithm with a collaborative filtering method. 

For a code implementation of recommendation, see the `Surprise` library in [[Python]]. 

## [[embedding]] using Word2Vec
Word2Vec uses a skip-gram system. Given a word, we try and predict all the words around it. We get vectors that represent the probability of all the words that might appear around the target word. We look at the probability of the word appearing one before, two before, one after, two after, etc. 

Word2Vec places all these vectors in a dense represenation with lower dimensionality. 

Additionally, Word2Vec can also use a CBOW (continuous bag-of-words) system. We give all the words surrounding the target word at once, and then put this into a [[neural network]] and try and predict the target word. 

When we take the resulting matrix and put the vectors into [[PCA]], we can see that Word2Vec can detect relationships between words in interesting ways. We can see analogies like king -> queen, and aply that same translation to the word "man" and arrive at "woman!"

## Career Workshop - [[interviews]]
We won't be diving into technical stuff too deeply. We will mainly focus on interview preparation, tips, how to approach the follow-up, and what to avoid. 

[[data science]] interviews are unique. There are usually three stages: the phone screen, the technical challenge, and the onsite interview. The phone screen is usually less than 30 minutes with a recruiter or hiring manager. The technical challenge can range from a few hours to over a week to complete a project or something. Finally, the onsite interview is the last step, where you will meet with various teams (usually) in-person.

During the phone screen, make sure to ask what the timeframe is for filling the role. This helps us manage multiple interviews at once, and lets us know when to follow up. It also lets the recruiter know we're deeply interested. Also ask what the process is for onboarding and interviews.

We should be keeping some form of interview journal. Since we should be applying to *10-12 jobs weekly,* we need to be able to look back on how each one went, especially if we're getting multiple interviews, and hopefully multiple offers to keep track of.

Attitude is really important. We need to stay positive at all times, since the interviewer will pick up on our mental state. Suspend all your assumptions when going into the process. This makes it easier for us to bounce back after a rejection, and helps us think clearly about if we even want to work at the company. We're finding out a lot about the company during the interview, and if the job isn't a good fit, that's ok. Also remember that the larger the company is, the slower the interview process usually goes, so don't freak if a big company doesn't get back to you right away.

Inside the mind of a hiring manager, they're trying to solve a specific problem. They need to fill a position with somebody who is reliable, proficient, responsible, a good cultural fit, and easy to work with. They also want the candidate to stick around for more than a year (there are exceptions to this rule, but don't tell the recruiter if you plan on leaving sooner than a few years). 

It's important to understand what employers want to see from us. They want to see a candidate who is excited, knowledgeable, has good questions, and is confident and determined.

Questions about salary are always tricky. There are some who say that deflecting the question is best, while others say to give a range up front. If you've done your homework, you should know a range that is acceptable for the position and your level of experience.

### Interview Preparation
The first thing we should do is research the company. Look up the interviewers on LinkedIn and see what their backgrounds are. This can be a hint as to what kinds of questions they'll ask. If they're just employees, don't connect with them before the interview, but that's ok if they're recruiters. 

Look at or use the company's products if possible. That will help with formulating questions, which you should do for sure. Make sure to go beyond the "about us" page when doing research. Really dive deep into the field, so that you know who your company is competing with and understand the fundamentals of their business.

Use the job description as a cheat sheet. Pay attention to what they're asking for in order to focus your personal story.

### Questions To Expect
During the phone screen, expect questions about your background, education, and your projects. Try and make this a story tailored for the company's needs in a candidate. Always be bringing it back to why you're a good fit and interested in the role. 

You might get some brain teasers or light questions during the phone screen, especially if it's a FAANG company. They will also ask about your salary expectations. 

### When to apply for a job
Unless they ask for 5 more years of experience than you have, go for it. These are the kinds of junior or mid level roles that we're going for. Make sure to determine if education is required or simply preferred. If a certain degree is required and you don't have it, don't bother applying. Your resume will be automatically rejected. Don't try to apply for a job like that without a referral. 

Never let the number of applicants turn you away from applying. 

### Discussing your Data Science Projects
We can follow the STAR formula when we explain our projects. Start with the Situation - explain motivation and objective without getting too far into the details. Then we can get into our Tools - the things that we used and the methods that we used. After that we arrive at Action, what we did and learned, and what we had to overcome. This is all about the process. Then finally we present our Results - the metrics, takeaways, and what we would do differently if we were starting over. 

In order to select the right project to highlight, we should look deeply into the methods that our project used and find a project that has methods that are relevant to the position that we're interviewing for. 