---
# Q3 TA planning
on [[22-06-28 Tue]]
with [[Product Quality Measurement|PQM]] TAs

---
Syed led this meeting discussing our team priorities as we head into Q3 of 2022. He wanted to set some expectations for me, [[Josh]], and [[Lynn]]. 

In the past, he said, our team has been mostly focused on [[CRON job|CRON jobs]], presenting to [[Measurement|PQM]] stakeholders, and playing a supporting role for the product team. Instead, he wants us to transition towards delivering insights and plugging holes in the products. This is motivated by a conversation Syed had with the senior director, who wants us to bring back a spirit of "activism" that he sees lacking from our recent work. This executive wants us to be the "faces of change" for the [[Job Seeker GM group]]. For example, when the [[Job to Profile queue]] was released, it displaced a massive Indeed product apparently.

In order to do this, Syed wants us to be more assertive when it comes to pointing out issues, and focus on delivering on the 2022 [[OKRs]]. ^2

## My specific work for [[22-Q3]]
My area of focus will be user feedback. We discussed a previous jamboard that contains initiatives and tasks that were developed before I joined the team. ^1

We created a new jamboard to highlight things in a more focused way. In this one, a note at the top has higher priority than those below it, so it's a bit more linear than the previous one. ^3

Big tasks here include scoping out easy places to plug automation into the [[Report A Job|RAJ]] process, working on an upstream [[CRON job|CRON]] that will feed data into Josh's [[MidApply Feedback queue]] [[IQL indices|IQL index]], and generally looking for patterns and trends across RAJ, NPS, [[SERP Relevance queue]], I2A relrating, and apply feedback.

When doing this, I should coordinate with [[Megan]] and [[Dan]], since they've done this kind of work and I shouldn't waste time on stuff they've already worked on. I can rely on them for general direction, and they can rely on me for technical help since they don't know stats and coding as well as I do. Syed advised me to schedule a meeting with both of them, and also suggested that I shadow one of them so I can understand the limitations of the current process.

I was given a chart to tell which operations person is in charge of which epic. ^4

## Closing thoughts
Of course, Syed emphasized that this isn't going to be a perfect account of what we work on, since work often appears unannounced. 

---
1. [The old jamboard](https://jamboard.google.com/d/1ZJg3-Fvl0t85lBhNAeYCVkuW4DAqJ0ZUFoA4pjpmZgo/viewer?f=2)
2. [2022 OKRs for my team](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NmNBWoyE_UuajMf25VGZSo9fz2QOoIDXDmU2GwjAwBk/edit#gid=750524884)
3. [The new jamboard with my Q3 todos](https://jamboard.google.com/d/1ZyAXF-zf9UWe6c_irxeE4CbpNVx2qh8SXPVgXGhsS7E/viewer?ts=62bb7b02)
4. https://jamboard.google.com/d/16_XjlgTy_v0Ao473ZocOZrqycNCjxTik5Tf61w6qinA/viewer?f=0