# Syed 1o1
on [[22-07-13 Wed]]
with [[Syed]]

---
This was a meeting with lots of information about what Syed sees as the long-term focus of my work here. But first, we talked about some basic housekeeping stuff related to my bonus. He also said that he'll be taking three weeks of PTO starting in October.

## General questions
I asked Syed if I'm going to have epics for this quarter. He said not new ones, but I am automatically assigned a few epics related to the [[OKRs]] that I'm assigned.

I asked him which tickets need to be "verified" before I can close them. He said that anything I'm doing for a stakeholder, such as writing a Cron for QA, must be verified, while tickets that are just for me, such as [[4607 - Learn how to write a Cronjob]], don't need to be verified. 

I asked why the [[22-07-14 Product biweekly planning]] meeting is after the [[22-07-14 PQM biweekly]], and he said that those prep meetings are actually for the *following* biweekly, so that we have enough time to plan our sprints around those biweekly meetings.

## Bonus and performance review
Syed apologized for telling me the wrong info - I'll only be getting a bonus percentage of the pay I've accrued in the last quarter, rather than a quarter of my base pay. This means that my actual payout will be around $450, representing 10% of the pay I've recieved in Q2. Better than nothing, but a bit disappointing. 

Syed reiterated the evaluation process. The next evaluation is at the end of [[22-Q3]]. I'll have a week to request peer feedback from three people, ideally on different teams. A week later, I'll write a self-evaluation and Syed will write an evaluation of me. Then Syed will sit down with other managers and they'll discuss what score I should get on various [[Technical Analyst expectations]]. I'll get the final info by the first week of October.

## My next tickets
Syed said that he wants me to write two tickets for the next sprint. The first one will be writing a [[Cronjob|CRON]] for [[MidApply Feedback queue]], and deploying it to QA. The second ticket will be investigating some bigger picture stuff that I'll talk about in a minute.

Back to the first ticket, Syed said that he isn't a fan of the Cron template that [[Katie]] uses, and he said it's a bit idealistic since things often don't work out according to the template. However, he still said I should try and use it and see if it works. He sent some reference Crons for me to inspect. ^1

The second ticket was a bit vague and I'll elaborate on that in the next section. 

## Bigger picture stuff
Syed said that in the second ticket, I should "ask for all the queries that [[Dan]] and [[Megan]] have for user feedback" and try to "connect" them. I'll have to ask him to be more specific with that wording. He said that in general, we have a lot of [[data]] about various aspects of the user experience, but there's no way to connect these dots to get a better picture of the overall user flow and the quality of the tools within the flow. That's where I come in. Syed wants me to become an expert in the data, the tools and products within [[Indeed]], and be able to make data-driven recommendations to the product team at those biweekly presentations. 

Getting more concrete, Syed said that we have the user `ctk` that tracks their searches, clicks, applystarts, and reports, and I should center my analysis around this binding feature of the user's experience. He said I should try and do the same thing with jobs, but I wasn't sure where to start with that. 

Of course, in order to do all this, I need to become a subject matter expert about a variety of things. This will take time, and Syed envisions me starting to present on the topic of user feedback in [[22-Q4]] or so, replacing Dan and Megan who are doing this now. Eventually, the PQM biweekly meetings are going to be the centerpiece of my work, where I make specific recommendations based on my data investigations. 

He said that this was meant to correct an attitude that had taken hold in the team over the last 1.5 years, where the team went from a data insights team to more of a support team that waited for stakeholders to ask questions about the data before jumping in.

As a part of this, Syed said that I should become familiar with all the user feedback queues in the measurement queue documentation *during the next sprint*. I think this is the real content of ticket #2. ^2

Offhand, he mentioned that [[Lynn]] will be doing a few sessions on storytelling and that would be useful so that I can form good recommendations and explain the data behind them well. 

---
1. https://code.corp.indeed.com/squallops/raj-labeling-cron
2. https://wiki.indeed.com/display/squalops/Measurement+Queue+Documentation