# One-on-one
on [[22-07-06 Wed]]
with [[Syed]]

---
## My questions
I asked how triage works, and Syed said that it's more of a kanban term. Triage is where all tickets are born. In order to be triaged, a ticket has to be assigned an owner and a sprint to be completed during.

I asked if I was going to be included in the Q2 bonuses this year, and he confirmed that I will likely be getting 10% of my Q2 base, which would be $2,050. 

I also wanted to know how freely I can create tickets. I was wondering if they all need to be approved, or if I can create some for things I feel like I should spend time reviewing, such as as [[scrumban]] or [[Git]]. He said that generally, we want to lock sprints upon starting them, and only add tickets to active sprints if they're very high priority. However, he also said that if it takes more than 30 minutes, it should be a ticket, and that I could work on some tickets outside the sprint since I'm new. I just have to keep them in the backlog and not add them to the sprint. For the future, he said that as long as my tickets align with the team OKRs then we're all good.

## Notes
Syed said that once I'm back from PTO and done with my two active tickets we'll start meeting more frequently as I start working on live production code. He said that this will feel like being dropped in the ocean, but I shouldn't be worried since he and others will help me out.

He emphasized that I should be attending lots of user feedback meetings so that I can get a feel for the process. I should reach out to [[Megan]] and [[Dan]] about this and get a few on my calendar at least. 

---
1. [Running doc for this meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QRwb62-m87UnrCY36HyqNDny2q0ACidA3RrsoFqBdlU/edit)