# Syed 1o1
on [[22-07-01 Fri]]
with [[Syed]]

---
In this one-on-one, we discussed what I'll be working on next sprint. He said that my first project will be to automate the code from an [[Ishbook]] that [[Dan]] created for [[MidApply Feedback queue]] labeling. In order to do this, I will be creating two tickets for next sprint: one as a SPIKE ticket to investigate the process of productionizing the Ishbook, and another for learning how to produce [[Cronjob|CRON jobs]] in general. 

We also discussed [[JIRA]] protocol. He said that JIRA hygene is very important, and would even factor in my performance review. I asked if there was a good way for me to keep tracks of minor tasks, and he explained that I should use subtasks for that. He explained that [[Dan]] writes really good tickets, so I should read some of his. Side note: when making these tickets, I have to set the "component" as "measurement" to have them appear on the Scrum and Kanban boards. I asked what product management system we actually use, and he told me they use the [[scrumban 1]] system.  

He also said that he's signed me up to go to a lot of user feedback meetings, where I can learn how the vendor system really works for user feedback during [[22-Q3]]. 

He said that going forward, we should use a running Google Doc to keep track of agenda items and questions. ^1

---
1. [Our sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QRwb62-m87UnrCY36HyqNDny2q0ACidA3RrsoFqBdlU/edit)