# 22-06-21 Syed 1o1
on [[22-06-21 Tue]]
with [[Syed]]

---
I had a one-on-one with Syed to discuss some questions and concerns I had about the number of meetings and my onboarding. 

I asked what the difference between a queue, a task, and a workflow was. I didn't fully grasp the answer, but I think a queue is the same thing as a task, while a workflow is a collection of queues / tasks. For example, a [[CRON job]] feeding into a [[PM queues|PM queue]], and another pushing results to an [[IQL]] index, are all part of a workflow. He said that he would look into developing some documentation on this. 

I also asked what tools I'll really be using. He emphasized that I should focus on trainings being conducted by people on my actual team, while other trainings were less important. That means I should focus on RAJ, [[Labeler]] and [[Waldo]], and put Basestar, Zendesk, and Sift Science on the back burner. 

I expressed that my [[22-06-21 job quality overview]] meeting was too similar to my [[22-06-20 Product measurement queues and philosophy]] meeting, and he said he would look into it. 

Syed also said he would begin setting up recurring 1o1 meetings, where we should talk about blockers, questions, and big-picture stuff like learning and career growth, rather than just going over what I'm working on at the moment, which should be relegated to standups and sprint planning meetings. He asked me to begin sending agendas in a shared doc that he will share with me, so that we can go into meetings knowing what we're talking about. 

---
