# One-on-one
on [[22-07-20 Wed]]
with [[Syed]]

---
This one on one meeting between my and Syed gave me a lot of clarity on that [[spike]] ticket I have right now, as well as some code stuff. He also got me set up with a Pycharm professional license.

## General questions
I asked if `ctk` was persistent across cookie-resets, and he said it is not.

I wondered where to submit a receipt for WiFi, he directed me to a [huddle page](https://www.indeedhuddle.com/Interact/Pages/Content/Document.aspx?id=24370&SearchId=3284332&utm_source=interact&utm_medium=quick_search&utm_term=internet+remote). 



## Spike ticket - connecting user feedback queries
Syed reiterated some of the stuff he said last time - that there's a big list of user feedback mechanisms the team owns right now, and he wants me to be the person who understands how they all fit together and who can gather patterns and trends from the big picture. 

He said that for this sprint, I should focus on understanding each mechanism and how they relate to each other. He said that some are on the job level, others are on the company level, and there are mechanisms for reporting feedback for [[Indeed]] as a company on the highest level. 

He explained that I should read the documentation about each of them in order to understand their place in the ecosystem of metrics.

Syed said that this will be an ongoing project across every sprint, where I will be diving deeper and deeper into this task. He said that in Q3, we will be more concerned with finding trends, but in Q4 we're going to try and build a tool that can tell you lots of different things across mechanisms based on a job ID. He said that I'll be presenting on my trend findings in the biweekly meeting.

## My code
First off, he said that I should use the team credentials when setting up the [[IQL]] client, and he sent me a code snippet in Slack that has that info.

He also advised me to make [[Dan|Dan's]] code more Pythonic by turning his cleaning into functions, etc. He also provided me a [code snippet](https://code.corp.indeed.com/squallops/raj-labeling-cron/-/blob/master/rajlabelingcron/sample_size.py) for rewriting the sampling stuff.

I'm not sure where this fits in to my work, but he reminded me that on the [[Labeler]] side, everything goes back to the docKey. He said that the format is the ctk, an arbitrary number, and then the unix time that the document was uploaded. 

In general, he wants me to keep the code as flexible as possible, so I shouldn't hard-code in the langauge or anything else, as much as I can help it. This will make it easier to duplicate across regions or other Labeler tasks. 

Specifically related to my `__main__.py` file, he said that I should add Barkley with the email addresses of me, Dan, and [[Megan]] so that we're alerted upon failure. He said in general I should copy code from [RAJ](https://code.corp.indeed.com/squallops/raj-labeling-cron/-/blob/master/rajlabelingcron/sample_size.py) since that's a good example [[Cronjob]]. I'll need the API key of the Labeler task, which I can find in that tool.

We're going to be meeting again tomorrow morning for another work session.

---
1. [Recurring meeting doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QRwb62-m87UnrCY36HyqNDny2q0ACidA3RrsoFqBdlU/edit#)
2. [sampling code]()
3. [good reference cron code]()
