# One on One
on [[22-07-27 Wed]]
with [[Syed]]

---
I didn't have many questions for Syed today, since I'm still waiting on the [[Kerberos]] principal to be created. 

However, Syed had things to talk about, namely the new job rubrics and the upcoming review cycle. He said that he considers three months to be the "ramp up" time, so I shouldn't feel that I have to be up to speed by this coming performance review. 

He went over how I will evaluate myself, he will evaluate me, and then the managers will have a round-table discussion about why I was rated the way I was, when compared to others who got the same ratings. He said that there will be justifications for any scores above or below 3/5. From a justification standard, he said that it tends to be easier to give people better scores rather than penalize them.

He said that the company goal is for all employees to be 50% in their progress-through-level (PTL) and their compensation to be at 50% progress-through-band. A discrepancy of more than 20% between PTL and PTB would raise eyebrows.

We also went over the new [[Technical Analyst expectations]]. They've added a few levels to my job description. It used to be that you went from Technical Analyst I to TA II and then you had to either become a manager or switch teams. Now they have an associate TA (below me), the existing two TA levels, and then another after Sr. TA II called Lead TA III. That's a lead role, but with no management duties, which sounds pretty sweet.

On the other hand, I will be graded based on the responsibilities that used to go to Sr. TA II, even though I'm still a TA I.

Resuming our discussion on the review process, I'll begin requesting peer feedback on [[22-08-16 Tue]]. I must have three or more peers, ideally stakeholders, but Syed understands that I haven't had much stakeholder contact yet.

On [[22-08-22 Mon]], I'll begin writing my own self-evaluation, and roundtables begin on [[22-09-09 Fri]].

Syed gave me a little bit of feedback here - he said that I'm doing a "pretty good job" of being curious and looking for answers to questions, and he said that he's excited to get me to the point where [[Josh]] is at, where I can start presenting insights.

---
