# Sprint planning
on [[22-07-18 Mon]]
with [[Measurement]]

---
I gave an overview of my tickets, explaining that the main thing I'm going to be working on is the [[Midapply Feedback queue]] [[Cronjob]]. [[Lynn]] said that I should probably break that out into multiple tickets instead of just having a 7-pointer for it. We set up a meeting to discuss it later this afternoon.

Other than that, I'm working on...
- [[spike]] - connecting user feedback queries
- Refresher on PyCharm editor / [[Git]]
- Creating documentation for [[Midapply Feedback queue]] for Documentation Day ([[22-07-29 Fri]])

[[Megan]] told us that she's working on the "WTF match" to gather angry jobseekers who [[Indeed]] has basically failed.

We all talked about how the biweekly presentation is stressful, especially since it's started being recorded, and the team vented about what was difficult during the last sprint. It was nice to hear that others are struggling / unsure.

---
1. [Calibration doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IImO_ipyLnvByhGA_cHtjMY01Ev4pTCp-IKb5JKQP_U/edit)
2. [Scrum board](https://bugs.indeed.com/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=7920&view=planning.nodetail&issueLimit=100)