# Tuesday, July 27, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-07-26|previous]] | [[2021-07-28|next]] | [[2021-07 July|month]] |[[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# Existing tasks
```tasks
not done
path does not include Templates
path does not include 2021-07-27
due before 2021-07-28
```

# New tasks
- [x] #todo #imt Send second message to Bryce R 📅 2021-07-28 ✅ 2021-07-28

# Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 3		(3+ pomo)
HUNT     ---> 4		(4+ jobs)
CREATE   ---> 1 	(6+ pomo)
```

# Thoughts
Back to da grind... I'm going to try and actually get shit done today. It's been hard since [[Eylen]] is in between contracts and doesn't have anything to do all day, she's been hanging out with me which is really nice but not conductive to me getting anything done!

I got another interview! It's with Code3, for a "performance analyst" position. 

# Career advice from instructor Nick
PRAMP is a site to practice the interview process. The standard company will have basic [[machine learning]] questions and some domain-specific questions. 

# TA sync meeting
- Gavin is leaving his TA position. 
- There will be fewer modules than normal for the next few months. 
- I will be on the deep learning module next cycle. 
- I'm doing the saturday hour at 2pm ET this week. 
- Flex plan is rolling out
	- At any given time, flex classes will be happening alongside the more intensive cohorts
	- It's asynchronous with video lectures
	- Instructors will have office hours and one-on-ones.
	- TAs will help manage questions on slack, and will be assigned to a certain flex module to answer questions there. 
	- We should respond to student questions *within 24 hours.*

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
