# Tuesday, June 01, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-05-31|previous]]  | [[2021-06-02|next]] | [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]]
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [x]  Work out
- [x]  Schedule optometrist ❗️❗️❗️
- [x]  Call VM radiology ❗️❗️❗️
- [x]  Pay for RPZ sticker
- [x]  Send dues requests

## Thoughts
Today is the first day of my second TA round. I really want to do a better job this time and actually learn some things. I also did all my tasks that were piling up! Hooray! That took 15 minutes haha. 

Damn it's hot today. Almost 80 and I have to have the window wide open. It's really summer at this point. 

I'm really dreading having to do the MRI again. I just hope that since I'm feeling so much healthier that it will be easier to do the prep stuff. Also it won't be so cold, which is what seemed so bad last time. 

I feel like I'm just waiting for things to happen in my life sometimes. Like I have no agency or plan for the future. Even though I do have plans, it's just that the plans are really based on what I feel like I need to be doing, not what I really *want* to do. But I do sort of want to do these things I guess. Like get a job, I do actually want to be financially independent, it's just that I really wish I could just focus on politics and learning more things everyday. I just need to remember that I still can do that with a job, and I have the added bonus of being more independent when I have an actual income. I just feel #emotion/bored overall. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
