# ðŸ“… Thursday, September 30, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-29|previous]] // [[2021-10-01|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to go to work, and then go to game night at Zoe's apartment. 

Today I'm grateful for the traction that I finally seem to be getting in my job hunt. I had one phone screen today that went well, and I have a technical interview tomorrow that I feel really prepared for. 

Today [[Eylen]] and I got into a fight over cleaning the kitchen. I really wanted to take a shower before work, and I asked her to help me clean and make breakfast to speed things up. She said that she had a lot of work to do, and refused to help. That made me feel like she was using work as an excuse because she knew I would cave in and do everything myself, and that made me feel bad and kind of manipulated. I think that's why I do most of the housework in general, just because she knows I will do it if she refuses. She could easily do anything I can do, and when it comes to cooking she would actually do a better job I think. It's just that she knows that she doesn't have to do anything, and she stubbornly sticks to that instead of compromising. That's really frustrating to me. 

It doesn't help that it's been so dark for the last few days. That just puts everyone on edge. It also doesn't help that Eylen didn't want to go climbing with me yesterday. She said that the drive was too long, and since I wanted to do ropes, it wasn't really worth it for me to go alone. 

Sometimes I feel like I make more sacrifices for the good of us than she does. Everything that *I* want to do seems like a luxury that has to be worked around her life plans and schedule. 

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
