# Saturday, July 17, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-07-16|previous]] | [[2021-07-18|next]] | [[2021-07 July|month]] |[[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Existing tasks
```tasks
not done
path does not include Templates
path does not include 2021-07-17
due before 2021-07-18
```

## New tasks
- [x] #todo Text EK at 11 ✅ 2021-07-17

## Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 		(3+ pomo)
HUNT     ---> 		(4+ jobs)
CREATE   --->  		(6+ pomo)
```

## Thoughts
Today I have [[2021-07-17 branch]]. I read some pages of a Jodi Dean book, she seems interesting from a political perspective. 

I really need to resume reading political theory. I can feel my confidence and overall political clarity slipping away due to my lack of practice. It's the same as working out or practicing a language, in the language of [[dialectics]], we're either increasing in clarity or decreasing, rarely staying at the same exact level. 

Constant change is a result of the internal contradictions within everything. Imagine the ranges of possible strengths of each force acting upon an object, the immense number of possible balances of forces. Only a single possibility exists that would result in stagnation - a perfect balance. Because of this, it's only natural that we would see nearly constant change in the world around us. 

A suprisingly astute quote from Coppola, the director of *The Godfather*, at a film event in [[Cuba]]:

> Here in [[USA|America]] you can write or say anything you want - and many people in Cuba are very impressed when you tell them this. They are surprised when they see something like *Godfather II.* They wonder: "How can you make a film that says nice things about our Revolution?" But the truth is, I believe, that the freedoms we have here are possible because they do not even come close to jeporadizing the real interests that govern our country. If there were someone who really came close to jeopardizing those interests, I believe our feedoms would vanish, one way or the other.

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
