# ðŸ“… Thursday, November 04, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-03|previous]] // [[2021-11-05|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for...

Eylen is a little salty at me for not giving very good gifts for our anniversary. Of course, she already figured out what I'm getting her, so it's not even a surprise. And the thing is, the only thing that she doesn't know about is coming in the same package, so I can't tell her something else is coming, or else she'll know what it is. 

This happens every year, either at her birthday, Christmas, or our anniversary. I find it really difficult to determine what someone would want for a gift, and I usually don't have the foresight to start planning early enough. I should set alerts a month in advance of these sort of events, because that's how long it usually takes me to think of something. Now anything that I get for her will be tainted by the fact that she already told me she was disappointed in the gifts that I was going to get her. 

I tried to compile a list of good gift ideas in Todoist, but Eylen went out and purchased all of them on her own, so that's no help. At least it let me know that I was on the right track in terms of what I was going to get her. I think I can [[Give better gifts by listening to complaints]].

This must have something to do with the fact that [[I have a tendency towards passivity]]. I just coast along doing the same old thing until I find myself stuck in a situation that I needed to prepare for. 

In other news, I got an email inviting me to apply to a position as a tutor for some sort of bootcamp. I have a call today with Elizabeth, the Metis student who works there now. 

# Planning weekend trip to Vancouver
*Friday*
Eat lunch at Marutama Ramen
Check in at 4pm
Eat dinner at ___ 

*Saturday*
Eat breakfast at The Templeton (nice diner)
Eat lunch at Babylon Cafe?
Go to event
Eat dinner at ___

*Sunday*
Eat breakfast at The Templeton or in the room
Go to Granville market via ferry
Eat late lunch at Jade Dynasty dim sum place
Metalworking class at 5pm (Chinatown)
Eat dinner at ___

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
