# ðŸ“… Sunday, December 19, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-18|previous]] // [[2021-12-20|next]] // [[2021-12 December|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for my health, on a day where [[Eylen]] is feeling pretty sick. She got a [[COVID-19]] vaccine booster yesterday, and is laid up in bed. 

My top priority today is to take good care of her, and make sure that she recovers quick! 

[[How should I manage tasks and habits?]]

I walked to the Central Co-Op and got some food for us. It was a cold but sunny day and it felt good to walk surrounded by all the people who emerged to get some sun and finish up their holiday shopping. That's a valuable part of city living, being able to go walk amongst the other people of my neighborhood instead of having the primary interaction with them be from inside a car, which is the experience of most Americans living in suburbs and less walkable cities. 

I had an interesting thought about the role of internal communication in organizations. Internal communication is the lifeblood of organizations. Not sure how to phrase this. We should keep clear lines of communication to allow for internal debate in a comradely way, while allowing for debates to remain within the political plane so that we can debate and move past specific issues. 

[[The organizational is political]]

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
