# ðŸ“… Monday, October 18, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-17|previous]] // [[2021-10-19|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to have my first day at [[Atos]]. 

Today I'm grateful for having a job with nice coworkers and managers (so far!). 

Setting up my workstation at home was a bit stressful. It's a desktop computer, so I had to make room for it next to my personal computer. Unfortunately, I discovered that the desktop doesn't have the ability to connect to WiFi! Insane. So I decided to move the router into the bedroom so that I could connect to it. But then, I realized that there's no ethernet outlet in the bedroom! In fact, there's only one in the whole apartment! So now I'm temporarily working from the kitchen table, and I may be picking up a 45 foot ethernet cable tomorrow lmao. The stress never ends it seems. 

# Call with Hal Gatewood
- Mortgage rates will be different for condo vs house. 
- Rates rise due to inflation, bond market, govt policy
- Don't panic about rates rising
- Anything under 4 or 5% is low
- Each lender has their own income to debt ratio benchmark
- First decide how much to save, then see how much you can afford for mortgage
- Factor in maintainance costs
- Assessments are dangerous with condos
- Make sure the lender has a good reputation, they will help us investigate the condo's history and potential issues
- Make sure the HOA has enough in reserve and is functioning well
- A pre-approval letter gets us to the front of the line when seeing units
- We need approval for condo specifically
- Those who look at a unit as an investment are more unhappy than those who just want a home
- At some point, we have to take a leap of faith after checking all we can 
- If you can afford it, and you want to live there, then that's ok, you don't need to perfectly time the market
- Stick to your budget, don't over-stretch yourself
- Do your research into the condo specific stuff
- Get insight into the community you'll be joining
- Look past easily-changed things, see the bones of the unit instead
- Three-bedrooms have a larger resale market, since new families are looking for that size <-- talk to realtor about this
- Give yourself extra time if going for an ARM (10 year)

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
