# Wednesday, August 11, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-10|previous]] | [[2021-08-12|next]] | [[2021-08 August|month]] |[[journal]] 
#daily

---
# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Thoughts
Today I had a call with a recriuting agent who got back to me, and then I went to get my contacts checked out at Globe Optical. They sent me an updated prescription, which still sucks. I think that I just won't get any contacts at this point. They're good for physical activity, and I'm glad to have a new prescription, but I can't really read or use a computer with them on, since my vision is pretty bad with them. 

The call with Femke went kind of badly, although she was quite friendly. She said that recruiting agencies in the [[data science industry]] tend to hire for senior roles, as clients can easily find entry-level people. She recommended sticking with larger companies that may want to bring a novice into their way of thinking. 

The optician said that this is the best prescription I could get with soft contacts. She recommended that I not attempt hard ones, since they take a long time of consistent wear to get used to and I didn't want to wear contacts every day. She gave me a copy of my prescription which I have saved in my files and quoted me a box of six contact lenses at $129. I would have to purchase two boxes since my prescription is unique in each eye. 

Notable: the HK teachers union disbanded under [[CPC]] pressure today. 

## Gratitude
I'm grateful for any opportunities that roll my way. I'm really happy that sometimes people reach out to me, like this recruiter. Even though she wasn't able to materially help me, she gave me good advice and made me feel like I had her full attention. 

# Call with Femke Keukenkamp (recruiter)
- Things to mention
	- ESCI
	- Bootcamp
	- TA
	- Stash experience
- Ask about current positions
	- Remote?
- Ask what type of positions they often get
	- Usually senior positions
- Ask about how often they get entry level datasci positions
	- Once every few months
- Ask about entry level positions
- Ask what I can do to improve my resume
	- Tableau 
	- PowerBI
	- AWS / Azure / Databricks
- Ask about next steps
- When will I hear from you again
	- Next week or two if colleagues have an opening
- Where junior roles exist
	- Larger companies' websites

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
