# ðŸ“… Wednesday, October 20, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-19|previous]] // [[2021-10-21|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to continue training ([[2021-10-20 Atos training]]). 

Today I'm grateful for the fact that I can log in to my Atos computer remotely! Jake let me know that I can just go to [chrome remote desktop](https://remotedesktop.google.com) and set up a session, and I will be able to use my laptop to work, meaning that I can work while taking vacations, etc. 

After talking with Jake J, I realized that this job isn't really a permanent solution for me. When they return to the office, my life will become hell. I won't really be able to conduct IMT work from the campus, and I won't be able to travel and remotely login to get paid after I've run out of PTO. 

I think that if they return to the office, which I will try to speak out against and rally support against if possible, I will say that my disability makes me immunocompromied, and I don't feel comfortable returning to an in-person office. I think that working from home constitutes a reasonable accomodation, seeing as the job was 100% WFH for over a year with no loss in function. That seems like it might work when the time comes. 

Of course, the real solution is to keep improving my resume and look for my next step, and to enjoy this job while the work is easy. 

Ok, the wifi adapter finally arrived! But of course, there are additional problems... I don't have admin privledges! But after about an hour of troubleshooting, I finally got it all figured out and now I have a whole command center in the bedroom with four total screens. We took some funny photos where I had all the screens playing different Lofi Hip Hop radio stations. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
