# ðŸ“… Tuesday, September 14, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-13|previous]] // [[2021-09-15|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to keep it up. I feel like today was rough in the morning, but it ended well. I want to keep that energy going as we get into the workweek. 

Today I'm grateful for Mimi again. I had a dream where she was about to fall off of a big ledge and I was holding onto her by a string, which was quite stressful. I was happy to wake up and see her safely purring in bed. 

I've been having a few nightmares actually. The night before last I dreampt that I had some kind of worms in my veins, and my legs got severed and I could see them all wriggling and writhing inside of me. That was really disgusting. Maybe I'm more stressed out than I realize if I'm having all of these kinds of dreams. 

I color-coded my graph today, and it looks really pretty. When I color code by note type, I can see how much diversity exists in my political notes when compared to my [[data science]] notes. I should do something about that! I'm sure that there are people and organizations and books worth learning about in that world. 

I talked with Jeff this evening, and he mentioned that [[Jacob]] had made some other unwanted advances that I wasn't aware of, and apparently toed the line a little bit with some unwanted touch towards one of Rae's friends. That would explain why they haven't seemed eager to spend time with him lately. 

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
