# ðŸ“… Monday, December 06, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-05|previous]] // [[2021-12-07|next]] // [[2021-12 December|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for having a nice structure to my life. Yesterday wasn't so nice because I didn't really do anything and I just felt gross all day with a headache. Today I'm trying to do better, and having to work actually does help a lot with that. It gives me a good structure to build my day around. 

Today I decided to re-read [[The Zen Teachings of Homeless Kodo (2014)]] and take some notes on it. Despite my ideological differences with [[Buddhism]], I still think there are valuable things to keep in mind that Buddhism brings to our attention. 

# Contact discussion with Freeman
- We're discussing the first half of [[The Class, the Party, and the Leadership (1940)]]. I want to make this as concrete as possible, since he hasn't read much theory and might be feeling lost.
- Dichotomy of method and content
	- We seek the method by which Trotsky analyzes things, and we only need to know enough historical context for us to get to this point. 
- Historical context of the Spanish rev.
	- End of the Spanish monarchy
	- Fascist movement based on the wealthy peasants and small capitalists in the cities, some large capitalists
	- Liberal movement based on the large capitalists
	- Socialist movement torn between working with the liberals and working alone
	- Stalin's influence pushing for a popular front
	- The POUM wavering in between class independence and collaboration, ultimately pulled workers back into coalition with the liberals
- What's the point of this article?
	- Trotsky wants to clarify the reasons why the revolution ultimately failed and fascism won.
- The dialectic approach
	- Dialectical materialism is the heart of Marxism, but no need to be fully versed in it yet. Understanding will come
	- We must look at the internal forces that are pulling a given thing in multiple directions, and try to predict which way the battle will go
- Application to BLM
	- [[Marxist leadership cannot be improvised]]
	- [[Consciousness changes on the basis of events]]
	- Que Faire would basically be saying that the workers in Seattle were just too stupid and immature to do what they were trying to do
	- Trotsky would counter that the average person was closer to the correct position than any of the leaders of the various layers were, and there just wasn't any clear group that was putting forward better ideas in the heat of the moment

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```

# How many Lenin books have I read?
```dataview
LIST 
FROM "Literature & Reference"
WHERE author = "Vladimir Lenin"
```
# How many Trotsky books have I read?
```dataview
LIST
FROM "Literature & Reference"
WHERE author = "Leon Trotsky"
```