# ðŸ“… Wednesday, October 06, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-05|previous]] // [[2021-10-07|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to go get a drug test for [[Atos]] in Ballard, and do some climbing since I'm over there anyway. 

Today I'm grateful for the fact that my arrest didn't come up during the background check, which was nice. I hope that they would still hire me despite an arrest (with no charges) but it's nice that I don't have to have that barrier for this role. 

The drug test was a total debacle. First, I drove all the way to Ballard, only to find out that an appointment was needed. I headed to their Bellevue office where I could do a walk-in. Unfortunately, the online hours were incorrect and I arrived 30 minutes after they closed the morning session for testing. Because of that, I had to wait in my car 2 hours before I could get a test. That meant that getting the test, which was supposed to take an hour or two, took nearly the entire day. 

# Calculating income change for dues payments
My annualized income, based on the average number of hours worked for the last 4 months, is $20,616. That's $1,718 monthly. That means that I've been giving around 0.6% of my monthly income to the [[IMT]]. If I want to maintain this rate, my new dues would be $25 monthly, if I assume a take-home annual income of $52,000, which amounts to $4,333 monthly. 

# More income calculations
Assuming a take-home annual income of $52,000, meaning a monthly income of $4,333, let's do some calculations to find how much I could save per month and year. 

In an average month, I spend like $1,000 on random stuff, so I'm factoring that in for now. This is a number I would like to reduce. 

```
 $4,333		total monthly income
-$695     	my portion of rent
-$163		my portion of groceries
-$350		rough health insurance figure
-$25		IMT dues
-$259.98	Roth 401(k), at 6% of income (ideal for matching)
-$400		misc expenses

---
 $2,440		available money for savings
 x12
 ---
 $29,280 	amount saved annually
```

For more, see my note on [[personal finance]]

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
