# Friday, August 27, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-26|previous]] // [[2021-08-28|next]] // [[2021-08 August|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# Thoughts
Today my mission is to host Evan, and to do well in my interview. This job I'm interviewing for doesn't even have a job description yet, so I think I'm getting into the process pretty early and stand a good chance if I play my cards right. 

Today I'm grateful for having opportunities fall in my lap like the interview I have today ([[2021-08-27 Optimize Health interview]]). I spoke with the VP of Product at a health tech company, and I think the interview went really well. It would be a role that would rely on combining data sources, which is something that I did often in my bootcamp projects. I hope that I get moved on to the next steps, and I think that I will be. 

Today we did karaoke and went to a live comedy event, which was funny in my opinion. Evan and Tom didn't think it was that good though. I haven't ever been to a stand up comedy show so I don't really know how to grade this one. But I laughed, so I think it was funny enough. At the show, we ran into Jeff, Rae, and Ari, which was a nice coincidence! I was a little annoyed to see that they have a stronger friendship than I have with them, and I couldn't help but think that maybe the fact that [[Jacob]] and I had tried to get them to join the [[IMT]] was something that stood in the way of our friendship early on. I want to make an effort to have independent relationships with each of them, which is something I'm bad at prioritizing in general. 

# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
