# ðŸ“… Wednesday, September 15, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-14|previous]] // [[2021-09-16|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to ace my call with the Atos representative. I'm going to have a short 15 minute conversation about the abuse detection analyst role that Jake Johnson referred me to. 

Today I'm grateful for just getting a call back honestly. I'm really hopeful that I could get this role, since it's apparently super easy and would allow me to have a lot of free time during the workday. I might have to commute to Redmond if I get the role though. That would be after [[COVID-19]] is over, so not for a little bit. 

I think the phone screen went ok. They asked what my salary expectations were, and I said 60-80k, which was apparently a little high for the role. She said they *might* be able to do 60, but that was a stretch. I also said undersold myself when she asked if I knew what IP addresses were. I should have just said yes, but I qualified it with saying that I wasn't super experienced but I could learn fast. I should have left that conversation for a later interview. 

I played some bass last night, and my fingers are really sore today. It's fun to play songs that I know and hear them actually come to life. It would be really cool if I got good at playing bass, and I decided to change my "draw" habit to a "be creative" habit that includes playing an instrument. 

Update on the phone screen: I got another interview! I'll be talking to Janet Slasor on [[2021-09-23]]. I need to really really prepare for this one. 

# ðŸ“ž Atos phone screen
- Why do I want the role?
	- Goal of working as a data scientist, want experience and insight into how their team operates
- Good at concentrating for long periods of time?
	- Yes! I love to get in the zone and just go for a few hours.
- Knowledge of cybersecurity?
	- I know the basics, and I'm good at self-teaching to get up to speed quickly. 

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
