# ðŸ“… Friday, October 22, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-21|previous]] // [[2021-10-23|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to have my first nearly normal workday. 

Today I'm grateful for da yob of course. And my health, which has been good lately despite me making some questionable decisions regarding my diet. 

I was thinking about [[IMT]] dues, and where they go. I heard that there's around one full-timer for every 30 members. We can assume that full-timers need *at least* $30,000 annually. That's $2,500 monthly. Divided among the 30 members, that's a dues payment of $83 per member, and we haven't even factored in the costs of renting office space, printing the paper (although that is somewhat self-sustaining), and contributing to the international organization! This really doesn't add up so much. I should ask JT about this. 

# One-on-one with JT
- Scheduling briefs and de-briefs before and after interventions
- Contact work
	- We should vet contacts with a short call, even if they seem low-potential
	- Ask why they're interested, how they found us
- Charlie's resignation
	- Sent an unprofessional letter of resignation insulting members of the CC with who he hadn't had any real contact
	- Argues that the CC should be elected on a branch-by-branch basis, not a slate at Congress
- Our position versus the [[Bolsheviks]]
	- We likely have more cadre than the Bolsheviks did

# One-on-one with JCE
- Historical context
	- Written in 1920
	- Need for international assistance
	- Lessons learned from the Oct Rev, the ensuing civil war, and the Brest-Litovsk treaty
	- Aimed at the convulsing movement in Germany
- LWC overview
	- I: international significance of Russian rev.
	- II: conditions for Bolshevik success
	- III: stages in hist. of Bolshevism
	- IV: struggle of the Bolsheviks
- His questions
- His comments

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```

