# Saturday, June 12, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-11|previous]] | [[2021-06-13|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [X]  Take medicine
- [X]  Work out
- [X]  Reach out to a friend ❗️
- [x]  Buy *Recipes for Modern Health* for Mom ❗️❗️
- [X] Update IMT sheet

```
POMODOROS TODAY (20 min) ---> 3
```

## Thoughts
[[Jacob]] is moving in next Tuesday ([[2021-06-15]])! I'm excited for him. He also agreed to watch Mimi while we're in LA. Someone agreed to buy our old couch so they'll be coming to pick it up this afternoon. Of course, [[Eylen]] got more than she initially paid for the couch lol.

I feel so fucking burnt out. As soon as Eylen's therapist mentioned that I might be burnt out too it's like something clicked and I gained the words to describe what I was feeling. I just feel totally incapable of handling the everyday tasks that I used to do so easily. I really need to research [[burnout]] and learn some ways to get around it, because I don't think I can continue this way, especially when I'm not even doing enough as it is in my job hunt. Overall I just feel #emotion/exhausted. 

==Warning: gross.==
I found a red, swollen, tender lump near my ass after taking a shower today. I really fucking hope it isn't another abscess like I had many years ago. That was so painful. If it is, I need to demand better anaesthetics since it was honestly traumatic last time. But maybe it's just an external hemmorhoid? I need to look into that. I'm going to an urgent care place tomorrow to get someone to diagnose it as a hemmorhoid vs abscess. 

I set up a new [[productivity]] system, incorporating the [[PLAN]] method. Every day, I will have a certain goal for how many work sessions I need to do for each of the categories of the PLAN. Sessions are based on the [[pomodoro]] method, and will hopefully ensure that I spend a reasonable amount of time on each topic. My weekly notes will allow me to see an overview of how many sessions I completed per day. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```