# ðŸ“… Monday, September 27, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-26|previous]] // [[2021-09-28|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to get my shit under control and prepare for the coming week, since I don't work today. 

Today I'm grateful for Mimi, someone whose love I know I'll always have.

I got another interview! It seems like I'm getting interviews faster and faster. It's crazy that I have two interviews in the same week, where I went months without even a formal rejection lol.  

# Last night...
Yesterday I got back from a long tabling session and [[Eylen]] and I had a fight. She really made me feel like she viewed me as a loser for the emphasis on political work that I have, saying that the fact that I would dedicate a day on the weekend to the [[IMT]] was something that a loser would do. It was the first time out of all our fights that she actually made me cry, and she made me feel like she didn't love me anymore. It affected me for a while, and it's honestly still affecting me.

She later told me that she didn't really think I was a loser, she was just mad at me for not prioritizing her over my political work, and that she only said that because she wanted me to feel bad. I would never do something that mean to her, and I told her that. 

In local IMT news, we have a new SEA member! John Ceballos is a former Navy sailor who lives in Kenmore. He seems eager to get trained up, which is exciting. I need to reach out to him to make sure he can make it to our next branch meeting, and see what he's interested in learning about first. Exciting! 

# Deciding on a climbing gym
I really want to get climbing again. I've been waiting to get a job first, but I think I'll just ask my parents for this as a birthday present. 

I want a place with ropes, so that means Stone Gardens. I can either do a ten punch pass for $180, or a monthly membership for $74 (plus a $50 startup fee). For the first 12 months, that means the pass really costs around $80 monthly. 

If I climb one day a week at Stone Gardens, that would cost $20 per session with the monthly pass. If I went with the ten punch, that would cost $18 per session but I wouldn't get a monthly buddy pass or first-timer passes. 

We can do student membership, which would be $63 with a $40 startup fee. Over the first 12 months, that means around $67 monthly, or $17 per session. If I'm able to sneak Eylen in, it would cost $8.50 for each of us each week. 

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
