# Wednesday, June 23, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-22|previous]] | [[2021-06-24|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [x]  Work out
- [x]  Reach out to a friend

## Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 1
HUNT     ---> 1
CREATE   ---> 1
```

## Thoughts
We're finally home from LA and back to our normal routines. [[Eylen]] is very busy because today she's starting her contract work for T-Mobile (not AT&T like we thought). I'm going to go pick up my new glasses at some point and then drive to Everett to get pelmeni from the Russian woman. 

Eylen and I fought today. I'm not really sure why we did, but it all started when Eylen was talking about how Cinder was rude to her on the trip. I agreed, but said that Eylen had done a few things that tend to annoy Cinder. I think I was too harsh towards Eylen, and kind of invalidated her feelings. I apologized for doing that, but she said that the apology was for my own benefit so that I could get out of the situation. Now she just doesn't want to talk to me at all. 

I do feel like I tend to try and artificially end or avoid conflict, but I was only apologizing for invalidating her feelings, not the other things I said, which I think I stand by. Eylen keeps saying that I "took a side," and I guess she just wanted me to 100% back her up, but I really do feel like she's being too sensitive and Cinder tends to boss people around a lot, not just Eylen. Especially since Eylen is so blunt, people assume that she has thick skin but she really doesn't. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
