# Tuesday, June 08, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-07|previous]] | [[2021-06-09|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [X]  Work out
- [x]  Reach out to a friend
- [x] Look into phone warranty 
- [X] Ask about inner tubes 
- [X] Buy a sun hat â—ï¸â—ï¸â—ï¸â—ï¸
- [x] Pick up RX after work

My phone's warranty expires Feb 8, 2022, so I have a decent amount of time to get my cellular service bug checked out. 

## Thoughts
It feels like a long time since I worked last. Many people are asking questions in chat this morning which is unusual. Nobody is usually active before lecture at all, but at least I feel like I can sort of answer these questions. I feel a lot more comfortable on the [[classification]] module than I did on the last one. 

I feel pretty ok this morning, or at least out of the funk that I was in the day before yesterday. Watching the [[bachelorette]] was fun, although two of my five picks have already been eliminated, and I had the first choice ðŸ˜­. It's not like I really did my research though, and I feel really good about two of my people. 

I left [[Jacob]] on read yesterday, after he wanted me to weigh in on a really long text that he sent somebody with which he was having a disagreement. I feel like I'm becoming his personal counselor which I want to avoid. He really just needs a more robust social network ASAP. I can't continue to be his only point of support. I hope that this will change after he moves to the city later this month. 

I've been thinking about that [[Everyone has an emotional baseline]] enough to write a note about it. I think this describes my general approach to emotions in general. I try to just accept the day to day fluctuations in my mood, reminding myself that both positive and negative fluctuations will return to my baseline eventually. The real thing to worry about is movement in the baseline itself. 

Sometimes [[Eylen]] can be sort of ungrateful. This morning I was dead tired and there was pretty much nothing in the fridge. I just had a protein drink for breakfast, and I made her coffee and heated up her leftovers from yesterday so that she could eat something, but she just complained that she didn't want to eat that and keeps saying she's so tired, and she said that breakfast was really bad today. Meanwhile, I don't have the time or energy to even make myself anything, and she can't even be bothered to say thank you for the breakfast I made her. She sometimes lacks empathy or appreciation for the fact that I put her needs above my own. But then any time I bring this up I'm being "so mean." She sometimes doesn't consider how her actions make *me* feel, only how she feels. I don't feel so happy anymore, now I feel like tagging #emotion/sad. 

## Dialectics and human development
Totally changing the subject, I've been reading over [[Socialism - Utopian and Scientific (1880)]] for my next contact meeting with Lee, and damn this is cool. It's making me think about the social / political [[evolution]] of humanity in a direct continuum with our physical evolution. Just as ants, and all cooperative animals evolved at some point from non-cooperative animals, there must have been an intermediate stage at which the ants were developing a new social structure to accelerate their development in general. That's the process that humanity is going through currently. 

Just as ant colonies probably initially developed sporadically and in small numbers relative to the population of proto-ants, so did the cooperation of humans develop slowly and through a bumpy road to what we see in the present. 

## Emma
I just found out that my parents are putting down Emma today. I felt really #emotion/sad in the moment and cried on the phone with my mom, but it's really been more sad to see that she can't do the things that she loved to do before. Her finally dying is just the final note in a long string of awful events that has gone on for over two years at this point. I'm not sure she was ever really happy in the last two years, and definitely not like she used to be. She always loved to run and hike, that was the only time when she didn't seem that anxious and scared. 

They're getting somebody to come to the house and do it there, because she's just way too anxious to go to the vet and do it there. I'm glad that my parents' lives won't be held hostage by her disability anymore, and that she will finally get some peace. 

Damn, this has been a pretty sad day.

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
