# ðŸ“… Monday, October 11, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-10|previous]] // [[2021-10-12|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to travel back home after National Congress. 

Today I'm grateful for my comrades. 

I haven't made any notes the last few days since I've been at the National Congress ([[2021-10-10 National Congress]] and [[2021-10-09 National Congress]]). It was honestly a life changing experience! I met so many dedicated comrades from all over the country. It was really affirming to see that there are hundreds of people just like me who are doing the work in more than 70 cities around the country. 

The event was great, and I feel really inspired to get to work on a new level in Seattle. However, I also feel a new sense of duty as one of the first American [[Bolsheviks]]. One day, there will be 20 or 30 new members for every comrade already in the organization and I'm going to have to manage that situation. 

In a perverse way, it would be more comfortable to exist as a perpetual study circle. Instead, we need to prepare for the next period of development - the comrades in Bellingham got around 120 signups at their Fall Offensive event, and based on the size of UW, we could get more of an echo than that, depending on how much work we can put in. 

We kind of missed the opportunity for a great Fall Offensive, but I think it's more important to spend time working externally than the importance of timing your work well. With effort spent, results will appear - although not in a mechanical, linear way. 

It was also excellent to meet comrades that I know from Twitter, and put faces to usernames. The social aspect of the event was incredibly important, and elevated the event miles beyond the online world congress that we had last year. 

I purchased a new T-shirt and a copy of [[Reason in Revolt (1995)]]. On the plane back today, I've already read more than 50 pages. 

I also realized the essential importance of resisting substitutionalism in my branch. I need to transfer responsibility to the other comrades as rapidly as possible in order to keep myself functioning as the senior [[cadre]] here.  

The biggest political debate at Congress was if we should include various statements and demands about the national question in our perspectives, organizational resolution, and program. The group decided against it, and my vote against inclusion was motivated by the fact that I felt the organization needed to go through a period of discussion about these questions before including statements on them, as well as some factual errors in the amendments. 

That made me realize that I need to reinforce my knowledge about the [[Marxism|Marxist]] approach to oppression and the indigenous struggle here in the [[USA]]. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
