# ðŸ“… Sunday, October 03, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-02|previous]] // [[2021-10-04|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to go see Jeff and Ari, and have a relatively relaxing Sunday Funday$^\text{tm}$. 

Today I'm grateful for the fact that I got that Atos job. It's been three days and I still feel elated at the fact that the long struggle is finally over and I'm entering another phase of life, where I will have a steady paycheck and a role that I can get used to for a little while. 

We were planning on going shooting with Jeff and Ari, but we arrived at the secret spot that Jeff knows about, and there were lots of posted warning saying "no shooting" and "keep out." So instead, we got Korean BBQ! We were a little bummed that we couldn't shoot his AR-15 or pistol, but it was nice to spend time with them, and the food was great. 

# Budget sheet update
I'm feeling like I want to redesign my budget sheet, but I'm not sure how. I think that the best way to go about this would be to list things that I would want an improved budget system to be able to do... I really want more flexibility with adding and subtracting categories of spending. My "other" category has become vast, and if my system allowed for more flexibility, I would be able to split that category into a more useful overview. 

I've been hesitant to jump onto a proprietary budgeting software, since every one I find is either riddled with ads or doesn't provide the metrics that I'm looking for. 

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
