# Tuesday, June 29, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-28|previous]] | [[2021-06-30|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]] 
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine

## Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 2
HUNT     ---> 1
CREATE   ---> 7
```

## Thoughts
The heatwave finally broke today. The high today is still in the 80s, but much more manageable than yesterday. I had a long talk with my Dad about the [[stash-o-matic project]] project, which was helpful. I think I need to move away from thinking of this as a simple forecasting problem, because the data just isn't there yet. Instead, I want to create a system where users can input sales forecasting assumptions, and it recommends what to order and in what quantity. 

I decided to get rid of my home note since I never use it and it causes some awkward connections that don't really exist. It's easier to see the real connections between my topics of interest without it. 

I'm in a really weird / bad mood today. [[Eylen]] has been kind of getting on my nerves lately. The heat has made her more short tempered, and I've pointed this out to her but she insists I'm "just being more annoying than usual." It's frustrating to me when I have to basically cater to her being in a bad mood, but when I'm in a bad mood I feel like I have to supress it or I'll cause a fight. I guess this is more of my problem, since I shouldn't feel like I have to supress my emotions, but I think that our relationship would honestly suffer from me being more emotionally honest in situations where I feel like she's upset me or done something I dislike. 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
