# Saturday, August 07, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-06|previous]] | [[2021-08-08|next]] | [[2021-08 August|month]] |[[journal]] 
#daily

---
# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 		(3+ pomo)
HUNT     ---> 		(4+ jobs or 1 C)
CREATE   --->  		(6+ pomo)
```

# Thoughts
Today I have [[2021-08-07 branch]]. Since it's just going to be Chris and I, we're hosting it over zoom and it will be more like a one-on-one discussion I think. 

I decided to adopt Todoist as my task-management app. Ideally, I would like to do everything in [[Obsidian]], but it just isn 't a very good tool to be honest. I can just keep Obsidian as a knowledge management platform, and have my tasks elsewhere. Todoist is nice because it's so quick to add tasks and simple otherwise. I just wish that I didn't have to pay to get alerts, but I can do that through the Google Calendar integration anyways.

My discussion with Chris kind of wore me out. He doesn't want to have in-person reading groups, since he will be busy and doesn't want to have to drive all the way up here. I sympathize with that, but I really don't want to just be doing online meetings again. It was so nice to meet in person. But on the other hand, it's not worth it for just [[JC|Josh]] and I to meet if that's what it would come to. So I guess back online we go! At least until [[Jacob]] is ready to come back to the work. I should make sure to mention this to [[JT]] at our next one-on-one on the 18th

## Gratitude
I'm grateful for Mimi and [[Eylen]], as usual. They're a light in my life :)

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
