# Tuesday, August 17, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-08-16|previous]] // [[2021-08-18|next]] // [[21-08 August|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# Thoughts
Today my mission is to work a bunch on the stash project and to have a relaxed, but productive day. My ear has been really stuffed up, and I also want to deal with that today in one way or another. 

Today I'm grateful for my free health insurance. I would be way more stressed if I had to pay to go to the doctor or for my medicine. 

Today I'm meeting with James Gunner. We briefly met him in Denver, as a friend of Sloane. Now, he's a Data Analyst, so I want to ask him how he managed that. He seems eager to give me advice. 

[[Eylen]] and some others are going camping this weekend, so I have to decide if I want to miss branch and reschedule my appointment at the Bone Density Clinic in order to go. She made plans, and then informed me later in the process. I could have been more proactive in letting her know that there would be issues this weekend, but it would still be nice if she asked if I was busy this weekend before creating all these plans. 

One on hand, I want to go on this camping trip, and I could just send apologies to branch. It's just one meeting. On the other hand, my contact Bryce is coming to this meeting, and he seems like a really promising contact that I don't want to lose out on. But will my presence at the meeting really make a difference? [[JC|Josh]], Chris, and Tom will be there, so that should go relatively well. But it would be really nice to be there and see Bryce and get a feel for where he's at. And it would be honestly nice to have a weekend home alone as well. 

I picked up some books from the library yesterday. I got a graphic novel of [[Che Guevara]]'s life, a dark comic book called *Mister Morgen,* and I picked up *Ten Days That Shook The World,* the famous account of the October Revolution. I also grabbed a book about sleep and sleep disorders. 

I found out that while I've been billing seven hours per workday, some TAs have been billing eight! So I asked Leon about that, and he said he would look into it and clarify it. If I can get back-pay for those hours that I should have been billing, that will be $843 extra. 

In the end, I couldn't get those hours back, and I actually think I fucked over the TAs who were billing extra hours lol. 

# Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
