# ðŸ“… Saturday, October 23, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-10-22|previous]] // [[2021-10-24|next]] // [[2021-10 October|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to go to branch and table at UW, and then see a bunch of house showings in the afternoon. 

Today I'm grateful for [[Eylen]] being patient and understanding of my time spent on political work. She didn't make a big deal out of me being gone this morning, and I really appreciate it. 

We saw a lot of apartments, but the only one that I really want is [[940 N 35th]]. It's a real spacious 2-bedroom which is a six-minute walk from the Lenin statue in Fremont. 

# Planning my work schedule
I know that I want to reach about 40 sessions daily to start. I think the best way for me to do that would be to break the workday into a few sprints where I do a bunch of sessions, and then I could have time in between to do other projects. 

As for what projects I want to be doing, I want to have time for [[IMT]] stuff, such as one-on-ones, reading, and preparing for meetings. I also want to be improving my [[data science]] knowledge, by working on end-to-end projects like I did in [[Metis]]. Third, I want to work on the Stashlogix project. 

In order to accomplish this, I'm going to have an AM work session, a mid-day session, and a PM session. During each session, I should shoot for 13 or 14 grades. We will see how long this takes on average, but I'm giving it an hour for right now. That means that to fill an eight-hour day, I have two two-hour blocks to work with. 

Now I just need to decide what I want to do for my first data science project. I should just do something simple, in order to get back in the swing of things. I'll grab a dataset off Kaggle and mess around with it. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
