# ðŸ“… Saturday, September 11, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-10|previous]] // [[2021-09-12|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to see what's up with [[Jacob]]. He's been acting a little distant, and seemed kind of scattered last week. He was planning on going up to Bellingham and asked me to watch his cats. I reminded him twice to drop off the key, but he forgot and drove up there. Then, he decided to just come back and cancel his trip, but he never told me he was doing that, and usually he's good at responding to texts. 

Today I'm grateful for cute and precious Mimi! Even though she bites plants, and even bites my legs while I walk sometimes, I forgive her. We don't really play with her enough. 

Yesterday we went to the Jai Thai open-mic night. It was honestly really bad! There were one or two comics that were decently funny, but there were multiple that totally bombed and didn't get much laughs. There was one in particular that kept making Jew jokes and jokes about how he wanted his girlfriend to have bigger tits, and just continued on that course even though it was obvious that the crowd was not into it. That's what I don't get, I guess these comics have only prepared a few jokes, and don't have any way to switch course when the crowd obviously doesn't like their specific angle. 

After that, [[Eylen]] and I got drinks with McKee (aka Calla) and her partner Maggie. That was nice, since we hadn't seen them in a while. The Pike & Pine area was really active, and I think that's because people saw the rain yesterday morning and realized that the good weather was slipping away. There was also a show at Neumos so that increased the crowd size as well. 

I just purchased tickets to see JPEGMAFIA on Nov 20! I'm really looking forward to that. A lot of other people said that they want to come as well. 

This evening, I went over to Jacob's apartment and hung out with him, his partner whose name I keep forgetting, his friends Sam and Cam, and his other friend Griffin. We played Magic and I won a round! My vampire deck actually did really well for once, which was fun. 

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
