# ðŸ“… Wednesday, November 17, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-16|previous]] // [[2021-11-18|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for my health. It allows me to just have normal days like everyone else sometimes. I'm really grateful that I can just forget that I have [[Crohn's disease]] a lot of the time. 

I've been thinking that I should work towards publishing a few more [[data science]] articles on Medium. I think I could use my new note-taking system to move towards that pretty effortlessly. 

I think I put [[Eylen|Eylen's]] spandex shorts in the wrong place when I cleaned the bedroom, and for the life of me I cannot find them anywhere. I've looked under the bed, in all her clothing drawers, in all *my* clothing drawers, in both of our dirty laundry, and in all the bags that it could have *somehow* gotten put into. 

Update: She found them! Last time she took a flexibility class, she left them there! I'm so glad that she found the pants, or else she would have blamed me *forever!* 

# Menu
Dinner:
- Korean potato side dish (banchan)
-  Soybean paste soup (pg 106)

# Meeting with Janet Slasor
- Performance reviews
	- 2 per year
	- Include generic objectives
	- I put in comments on self-evaluation every 6 months
	- After putting in these, HR does consolidation phase for 3 months, and then we can see them
	- Issues will be worked on far before the performance review
- Objectives
	- Financial (continuation of [[Atos]] contract with MS)
	- Maintaining or increasing grades per month
	- Maintaining good disagreement rate

# One-on-one with JT
Notes
- There are examples of Trotskyist organizations in [[Brazil]] that our new contact may know
- JT has an interesting contact whose parents work in [[China|Chinese]] state media. Presents issues with internal security
- Contact work is the art of injecting the right idea at the right time
- Jacob has a tendency towards over-committment. We also have to set a good example in branch
- All organizational tasks are political. Branch attendance is a fundamental political point.

How to find the sides of a contradiction?
- Contradictions = antagonistic forces within an object
- Class struggle is the main contradiction of society
- Dialectical analysis begins with internal contradictions
- Contradictions tend towards resolution
- We have to use materialist analysis as well as other methods to understand internal contradictions
- We must separate primary and secondary factors within an object
- The dialectic isn't useful when applied abstractly
- Dialectics can act as a shield against conservative thinking

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
