# ðŸ“… Tuesday, December 21, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-20|previous]] // [[2021-12-22|next]] // [[2021-12 December|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for special Mimi, since we discovered a wound on her cheek last night. We got a cat cone from the Buy Nothing page so that she can't scratch it anymore, and we disinfected it. I'm going to be calling a few vet offices around the neighborhood to find a place we can take her for a free consultation, since we probably won't have to do any stitches, but we want to be safe. 

My top priority today is to call those vets. Gotta find somewhere that will allow us to do a free consult. 

```
URBAN ANIMAL: $69 consult, ~$90
CITY CAT:     $69 comprehensive exam
```

We eventually decided just to monitor her at home, since her wound seems to be doing a lot better already. We got a disinfectant spray made for cats that acts as a liquid bandage. 

I decided to actually use the second monitor that [[Eylen]]'s work got her. Now I have a total of three monitors for my personal computer (including the built in one) and two for work. There are now five screens in here. I wouldn't be using my built in one, except for the fact that I can't get it to keep working while the lid is shut. I think it has something to do with the way that DisplayLink is working. Not sure what's up with that. It's ok though. It's actually nice having a close-up laptop and the other monitors above / behind. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
