# ðŸ“… Monday, November 15, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-14|previous]] // [[2021-11-16|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for my new approach to note taking, and the fact that it seems like I'm on a serious upswing in terms of my daily habits and keeping the house clean. 

Today is supposed to be very windy, with winds of up to 50mph. We will see if power stays on!

I've been feeling a little bit burned out from note taking. I took a lot of notes in the last few days, and totally re-designed my note-taking workflow. I should give myself some time to get used to this new state of affairs, and change my focus from taking more and more notes to actually writing the rough draft of my article, [[Lessons from the CHOP]]. 

Today I have to make the final decision on my benefits. First on the table is the Flexible Spending Accounts. Apparently I can make an annual contribution of pre-tax income that can cover health costs. I was under the impression that I was ineligible for this sort of thing. I guess I'll just make an annual contribution of $500 or something? It's really hard to estimate my annual healthcare costs since I haven't been paying for anything up to now. This is a "use it or lose it" situation, so better to under-estimate. 

During my one-on-one with John today I was thinking about how [[The revolutionary party acts as a catalyst]]. 

After reading the beginning of another book from the library, [[Atomic Habits (2018)]], I was wondering: [[How can we apply dialectics to habit formation?]]

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
