# ðŸ“… Monday, December 20, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-12-19|previous]] // [[2021-12-21|next]] // [[2021-12 December|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for being aware enough to realize when I'm not feeling grounded and connected with my body, as was the case this morning. I spent a long time zoning out and working on my budget spreadsheet, to the point that I was kind of dissasociating. I took a shower and tried to get in touch with my emotions which was difficult. It felt like all my feelings were under a thick blanket. 

My top priority today is to create some sort of meal plan, even for just a few days. I've been feeling really burned out today, and not having food to eat is a big part of that. 

# Contact with Freeman
- Essential ideas of the second half of [[The Class, the Party, and the Leadership (1940)]]
	- Role of the peasantry
		- Can be active, but will look to the workers
	- Role of individual organs in the revolution, as well as the role of specific persons / subjective vs objective factors
		- Objective conditions create opportunities, specific actors must seize those opportunities
		- Specific example of Lenin arriving in Petrograd (Kam. and Stalin argued that the bourgeoisie must lead their revolution (FEB) and complete their tasks, Lenin arrived and sided with Trotsky who had been proclaiming permanent revolution)
	- How the workers move into struggle, and how they move between organizations
		- Move gradually, starting with familiar organizations, are inherently loyal
	- How to build principled coalitions 
		- Must retain freedom of criticism
		- Must be predicated on a real need for unity
		- Must be on certain points only
	- Are the masses to blame for failure?
		- This has been used time and time again to divert blame from the leadership who have embraced dead-end strategies
	- Organizational lessons
		- Role of the revolutionary party
		- Training the cadres effectively
		- Proper use of democratic centralism

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
