# Sunday, June 06, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-05|previous]]  | [[2021-06-07|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]]
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [x]  Work out
- [X]  Call QFC ❗️❗️
- [x] Do the litter ❗️❗️❗️
- [X] Buy sun hats ❗️

## Thoughts
Yesterday was Tom and Katie's birthday party. I was pretty #emotion/nervous that I would be awkward like last time I was at a party, and I ended up relying too much on weed to try and alleviate that. I was hitting the pen way too much and it all kind of snuck up on me and I got super lightheaded and passed out for a second as I was trying to go to the bathroom. 

Luckily I felt totally fine after that, and sobered up pretty quickly. I really need to work on my social skills so that I'm not dependent on weed to try and socialize. Weed doesn't even help it probably makes it harder to be honest. 

The rest of the party was actually fun - I recovered pretty well and I don't think that many people noticed what even happened. [[Eylen]] was really the life of the party and I felt glad that she was my girlfriend. I like having someone who can have that kind of confident energy and express herself like that. 

My graph is getting messier and messier these days. I think the goal of having a neat graph was really holding me back from making all the connections that I could have made at the beginning. 

Today Eylen's friend Sarah is coming over, who she hasn't seen in many years. She's one of Eylen's old Christian friends so I kind of assumed she would have a Gabi sort of aesthetic but honestly she was just a sort-of-basic girl who loves to make TikToks and shit. She didn't seem that *Christian* honestly. 

I feel a little weird. Lately I've been feeling like my life isn't really headed anywhere, or maybe that I'm just waiting for something to happen and change things up. This is probably related to the fact that I'm just grinding my way though the job search with not much luck yet. Like all I basically do with my free time is go on [[Obsidian]] and browse my notes and add some stuff here or there. Maybe I'm just feeling #emotion/bored. 

Ugh I feel so antisocial. I really want to work on that. Being unable to actively make friends kind of means that your social circle is decided for you by others. Either Eylen just introduces me to people that she likes, or people who are really outgoing become my friends ([[Jacob]], etc). I like a lot of the people who I've met this way, but it just doesn't feel like I'm really searching for people that *I* really click with to make friends with. 

I really want to get some more [[hobbies]] going. Maybe I can accumulate ideas for those?

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
