# Thursday, June 03, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-06-02|previous]]  | [[2021-06-04|next]] |  [[2021-06 June|month]] | [[journal]]
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [x]  Work out
- [x]  Review asynchronous material for 1 hour
- [X]  Clean the litter
- [x]  Change rent souce to checking

## Thoughts
The first day of summer is officially June 20, but it feels like summer started yesterday. We went to Madison Beach and swam since it was so damn hot. The high was 86 degrees. 

It felt like [[COVID-19]] was really over for the first time. There were so many people enjoying the weather at the beach, and not a mask in sight. I feel bad for those living in areas without access to the vaccine, but here in [[Seattle]] we're at 61% vaxxed and the city is closing some vaccination centers due to a lack of demand. 

I just spent some time trying to get the day planner plugin to work, but it conflicts with my outstanding tasks system in the [[journal]] page. I don't think it's worth troubleshooting it anyway, planning out every hour is a little too constrictive anyway.

I just spent so fucking long changing my keycaps to the previous set, just to discover that I'm missing three keys... Oh my god that's frustrating. It is right on the verge of looking really cool but since it's not totally perfect it's giving me a headache. I'll probably end up removing them all and going back to the previous configuration, wasting my time all over again. I feel really #emotion/frustrated. 

I finally merged my Personal Vault with the Professional Vault. It was just getting a little bit too restrictive and I feel like I've radically embraced the anti-hierarchical note organization method. Also it's doubtful that I would ever actually open my Professional Vault alone, since I would lose access to some notes that fall into both spheres, and in general it would be a pain in the ass. I think I can keep my notes private regardless. 

Yoo, I just found out how to embed videos into obsidian notes... 

<center>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dQw4w9WgXcQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"></iframe>
</center>

## Today's files
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
```