# ðŸ“… Wednesday, November 03, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-02|previous]] // [[2021-11-04|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today we had to get another [[COVID-19]] test since the one we got yesterady will actually expire before our border crossing on Friday. 

# One-on-one with [[JT]]
I told Jake how I had missed two branches in a row and was looking forward to getting back in sync with the branch, and I gave him an update of how well JCE was doing as far as leadoffs, tabling, and branch goes. We also talked about how Jacob was still inconsistent with the work, and both agreed not to hold our breath waiting for him to become a big part of the work again.

I gave Jake an update on the Seattle election results, and how the "progressives" had been pretty much thrashed. I said this was an alarming result for [[Socialist Alternative]] and Sawant, who is probably not so excited for the recall election in December. 

After that, we got right into [[In Defense of Marxism (1942)]], and talked more about the errors of the petty bourgeois political method. I brought up the point that [[Marxists seek to increase the clarity and confidence of the workers]]. 

I asked Jake what happened with the SWP after these events, and he said there was a long period of internal degeneration under [[James Cannon]], who wasn't exactly a great student of Marxism himself, and that Steve Iverson was one member of the IMT who was in the SWP for a really long time. 

We talked about how there likely won't be a national event in 2022, since Congress demonstrated that the organization has outgrown a lot of the old routines and organizational methods, which will take time to reprogram and update. Instead, we should expect a series of regional schools. He also mentioned that the CBDC is probably gonna be folded into the western regional BDC that includes the midwest. 

Finally, we talked about how National is slowly rolling out Hubspot as our new contacts management software, and how this will allow us to incorporate contact work more closely into the Slack platform, allow for analytics, and just be more streamlined overall. I let him know that this sort of thing sounds nice, as long as there wouldn't be too much overhead for getting it up and running, since there really isn't much of a need for it at our level. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
