# Thursday, July 15, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-07-14|previous]] | [[2021-07-16|next]] | [[2021-07 July|month]] |[[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Existing tasks
```tasks
not done
path does not include Templates
path does not include 2021-07-15
due before 2021-07-16
```

## New tasks
- [x] #todo Switch bedsheets 📅 2021-07-15 ✅ 2021-07-23
- [x] #todo Do laundry 📅 2021-07-15 ✅ 2021-07-23
- [x] #todo Develop interpersonal growth SMART goals w consequences 📅 2021-07-15 ✅ 2021-07-15
- [ ] #todo #imt Find a better meeting location

## Pomodoros
```
LEARN    ---> 		(/3 pomo)
HUNT     ---> 6		(4+ jobs)
CREATE   ---> 3		(/6 pomo)
```

## Thoughts
Later today, I have a contact meeting with somebody named Mel. After that, Eylen and I are going to some kind of [[networking]] event with speed-interviews, but I'm not really qualified for any of the roles unfortunately... But it will be a good networking event regardless.

- Bernard wanted to ask if he could incorporate recommendation and topic modeling of tweets about Tesla self driving feature. 
- Jennifer asked about effect of removing [deleted] comments on topic modeling Reddit. Also asked 

#### The return of Bezos
Yesterday I let the Bezos video go viral again. It was half on accident, half on purpose, just to see how fast the views would go up. Of course, this really affected [[Eylen]] again, and I really should have known that would happen. I feel really stupid for not considering this incredibly obvious outcome, but I went ahead and deleted the video off of TikTok, and I've been reporting everywhere that people have been mirroring it on the site. I *really really* hope that it doesn't go viral again on Reddit or anywhere else, because Eylen *just* got past this, and it's just so stupid for me to bring it back up again. 

Now, of course, Eylen is really mad at me because why wouldn't she be. This is kind of a betrayal, and she has a right to be really dissapointed that I would be so careless with her mental health to go repost that video (even if it was accidental initially) without thinking of how it would affect her.

Being careless about how my actions affect her is definitely a weak point of mine. These decisions always seem so obviously bad after the fact, but for some reason it just doesn't click in the moment, I just don't see how it could go wrong until it's too late and the effects are here. I really want to work on being more conscientious of how my actions affect her, because she never does these kind of things to me, and it feels like I do them to her over and over. 

Now I want to make it up to her by making this week really stress-free for her.

#### Topics for today's contact meeting with Mel
- Their political background
- Information about the [[IMT]]
	- Size: 3 branches in PNW, ~45-50 branches nationally with 40 sections internationally. 
	- Perspectives
		- Working class has rev potential
		- Need for revolutionary leadership
		- Win this leadership through correct ideas and professionalism
- My political background
	- ESCI
	- Passed through identity politics, "progressivism"
	- Passed through [[reformism]]
	- Arrived at [[Marxism]]
- Mel's views
	- Concerned with environment
	- Degree in ESCI engineering and oceanography
	- worked for the govt as engineer for indian health service
	- Anti-nuclear views
	- Wants to discuss marx, other socialist groups
	- Inprecise analysis of fascism
	- From Canada, dual citizen
	- Ideas about the covid lockdown are... intersting

## Interpersonal growth [[SMART goals]]
#### 1: Thoughtfulness
Over the next month, I will reflect at on how my actions affect Eylen and others in my life. I will do this during my meditation sessions, which occur once a day. After each session, I will report on what I've reflected upon. 

#### 2: Truthfulness
Over the next month, I won't tell any lies. 

#### 3: Responsiveness
Over the next month, I will take a few deep breaths during disagreements before responding. I will do this to keep myself present and responding instead of reacting to situations.

#### Failure consequences
If I fail to follow through with one or more of these goals, I will donate [[Dune (1965)]] to Twice Sold Tales without finishing it, and I will take a month off of [[IMT]] work. 

## Networking notes
- Amazon Photos
	- Not really any positions that match me
- Auth0
	- Senior Data Scientist
	- Data Engineer
	- Senior Machine Learning Engineer
	- Qs
		- What sets candidates apart
		- What differentiates ML engineering from data science
	- Axon
		- 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
