# ðŸ“… Thursday, September 16, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-09-15|previous]] // [[2021-09-17|next]] // [[2021-09 September|month]] // [[journal]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today my mission is to prepare for JT's arrival and think of some things we could do. He will be staying at [[Jacob]]'s apartment Friday and Saturday nights, and then we are all going up to Bellingham to have a joint meeting up there. He wanted to see what Cap Hill is like, and there's a [[Socialist Alternative]] rally on Saturday that I thought we could attend, so Jake could get an idea of the numbers that SAlt was actually pulling in [[Seattle]]. Other than that, I'm looking forward to just talking about politics and organizing. 

Today I'm grateful for the chair that I'm using today. [[Eylen]] says that her designer chair is hurting her back, so I'm getting it today. It's great for my back! I feel like I'm sitting up perfectly straight all day when I'm sitting in it. 

I went to the dentist in the morning to get an impression for a nightguard. I'm glad that I've gotten around to doing that, because my teeth are really feeling the impact of grinding. The infusion center never called me back, so I have to call them today, *again.* Insurance sucks, and I hate it. 

Colton --> Louisa's (Metis student I taught) husband's roomate in College, now works at Convoy. This is a *tenuous* connection at best lol. But I'll take whatever I can get!

# ðŸ“¥ Todoist
```todoist
{
"name": "Tasks for today",
"filter": "today | overdue"
}
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
