# ðŸ“… Friday, November 19, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-11-18|previous]] // [[2021-11-20|next]] // [[2021-11 November|month]] // [[journal]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts
Today I'm grateful for the fact that my Atos job will be permanently WFH. That means I can devote all my time to the stashlogix work, and then I can start looking for data science contracts or full-time positions and keep my current paycheck. I could easily do another job on top of this one honestly, although I wouldn't really want to give up the free time that I have right now. 

Today, I have a chat with Tyler Lubeck - to give an update on my new job, and ask him some questions about the stashlogix project. I also have an all-hands meeting for Atos, which will probably be about the move to permanent WFH. 

I really have to pack today, and I have to finish my leadoff for branch tomorrow. 

# Atos all-hands meeting
- They're setting up a career 101 session to let us know what resources we have. 
- 

# Chat with Tyler Lubeck
- Give update on [[Atos]] job
	- Current duties
	- Possibility for advancement
	- WFH
- Stashlogix project
	- Has he ever live-deployed ML products in a remote server?
	- Lack of data (sellouts)
	- Pipeline creation
	- Any resources for JavaScript integration with python in a remote environment?
	- Any advice for medium-term goals? I want to include as much ML stuff as possible
- Would he be open to meeting again at some point to continue giving me advice?
- His recommendations
	- Use Heroku not DigitalOcean --> we should see how it would be to integrate current dashboards
	- Rethink why this needs to be a website, it's easy to over-enginner (and to under-engineer)
	- If Dad's JS is just in the browser, use flask or something as the platform that calls to the server
	- If he's doing server-side JS, it's trickier. I can just start doing JS, which is a good move career wise. Otherwise, we could just have two servers. 
	- Don't read a book on the subject, they are outdated fast
	- Look up "building a basic todo website with flask"
	- Get stuff into git!!!
	- Make sure to use a private repo!!!
- He's happy to poke through the code
- 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
