# Wednesday, May 26, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-05-25|previous]]  | [[21-05-27|next]] | [[2021-05 May|month]] | [[journal]]
`TAGS:` #daily

---
## Tasks
- [x] Take medicine
- [x] Work out
- [x] Update deadline for income attestation (30 days from first paycheck)
- [x] Do employee trainings that I forgot about
- [X] Order cat food on Chewy
- [x] Find optician

## Thoughts
[[Eylen]] and I are well into our week of meal prepping, and it's going pretty well. I regret making both of the meals beef-centric, becuase I think red meat is a bit of an inflammatory for me. 

Being a TA is going pretty well. I don't really have to do that much work or really answer many questions, and I get paid a lot. I basically get paid as much as Eylen does for her full-time job even though I work three days a week. With three days a week, my gross income is $630 weekly, $2,520 monthly, or around $30,000 annually. Once I go down to two days a week, I'll be getting $20,000 annually. But that's not including my hours testing the new curriculum, since I have no idea how many hours I'll spend on that outside of my other responsibilities.

%% I just learned I can comment things in here so they don't show up in preview!!! %%

Ok, I really need to be taking this TA thing more seriously. Just overheard a conversation where a student was saying I wasn't very helpful ( #emotion/sad ) and lowkey he is correct. I don't totally know what I'm talking about a lot of the time. I should spend more time looking over the material before and during class. 

Therapists are actually getting back to me! I'm #emotion/happy that Eylen will be able to get some professional help soon, I think it will be very good for her. See [[possible therapists for eylen]].

These employee trainings that I have to take are extremely dumb. I hate the corporate HR conception of "codes of conduct" and "ethical behavior." Totally bankrupt morality of the [[bourgeoisie]]. Lawsuit-prevention dressed up as feel-good touchy-feely bullshit. It makes me think that it's honestly understandable if people have a negative conception of "the left."

I've spent a lot of time today updating my [[health history]] and [[drugs]]. I feel like it's important for me to have an accurate record of every medication change that I've gone through since doctors really don't have much idea what they're talking about sometimes. I have to be responsible for my own health. 

I found an optical place that accepts my insurance. I can go [here](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Globe+Optical/@47.6126739,-122.3373106,16.13z/data=!3m1!5s0x5490154b7411fba1:0x15c1bcf9d77eb665!4m13!1m7!3m6!1s0x5490154b7701c899:0x2242be7f659aa983!2s2008+5th+Ave,+Seattle,+WA+98121!3b1!8m2!3d47.6142033!4d-122.3394108!3m4!1s0x5490154ad83ff1ed:0xe2478428337944eb!8m2!3d47.6141424!4d-122.3394434?hl=en). 

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
