# Saturday, May 29, 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021-05-28|previous]]  | [[2021-05-30|next]] | [[2021-05 May|month]] | [[journal]]
#daily

---
## Tasks
- [x]  Take medicine
- [x]  Work out
- [x]  Remember to propose Daniel for membership

## Thoughts
Today I have [[2021-05-29 branch|branch]]. This is the last joint, online branch meeting. After this, we are going on a break and will resume in-person! Very exciting, but kind of scary to lose the support of all the Bellingham comrades. Not that they were doing that much work though. 

We went to the park with Mimi and stumbled upon an Eritrean festival or something. Lots of East African families and there was a band and vendors and everything. Seemed like a fun time. Mimi was nervous at first to be outside but she warmed up to the situation and got more comfortable. It was very cute how she wanted to hide under my jacket and in between my legs as I was laying. This made me feel #emotion/happy. 

It's always such a chore to get [[Eylen]] out of the house, but I think she really enjoys it when we go do fun things. It's good for her to get fresh air and break her routine. I think she's naturally a homebody because she never really saw her parents engage in active hobbies like I saw mine do. That's why I feel bad when it's super nice out and we just stay inside on the computer. I feel like I need to be out there, and it almost makes me feel more guilty. As a result, the fall and winter is almost a bit of a relief for me since I don't feel the pressure to go do things and enjoy the weather. Overall, the summer is still nicer of course.

## Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
