---
origin: 2022-07-23
---
# ðŸ“… Saturday, July 23, 2022
[[2022-07 July]]
[[2022-07-22]] // [[2022-07-24]]

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
We woke up pretty late today, and I got some chores done. I finished preparing for [[2022-02-27 CC]], where we're going to discuss Freeman leaving the IMT and the Fightback allegations. I feel a lot more sure of myself after really diving into all of the content of the open letter and preparing my thoughts on the matter. It's going to be delicate bringing this to branch, but I'm pretty confident that I can explain my thoughts on the matter. The most important thing is to assure the newer comrades that they can bring concerns to me without fear that they will be ignored or brushed aside. That's the one thing that I can control, regardless of which 'side' of the back-and-forth is telling the truth within Fightback.

At CHBP, we saw Danny Brown, Toro y Moi, and Jai Wolf. Danny Brown was by far the most entertaining show, but kind of in a bad way. He was so drunk by the time he got on stage that he could barely rap, and he kept pausing the music every couple minutes to start talking to the crowd. He talked about how he always comes to CHBP, how the homeless people are crazy here, he talked about antifa in Portland, and then randomly brought up how only Austin and Seattle are places you can be yourself. He also brought a random child onstage from the crowd, and this kid was dancing around like crazy and the crowd was going wild! The kid was a little bit uncomfortable at times, and Danny tried to get the kid to say "We about to get lit up in this bitch," but the kid didn't want to say it lol.

Toro's show was really great, but Jai Wolf kind of sucked. It was just really formulaic EDM that sounded like it could have been from 2012 honestly. 

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```