# ðŸ“… Wednesday, February 02, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-01|previous]] < [[2022-02 February|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-03|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
%%What did you do today, and how did it make you feel?%%
Today I got an interesting email. The Socialist Party USA has reached out to the IMT through me, asking us to join their "united front" and run candidates or something. It's kind of funny that they would act so serious about it, since I'm sure they don't have many more active members than we do, and we're sure not going to engage with some kind of premature electoral campaign. It was also interesting that they didn't seem to want us to do anything as part of this mutual campaign, and said we could run our own candidates and ballot measures if we wanted to. Then what's the point of a united front if we're not going to coordinate whatsoever?

I was thinking a bit about [[The dialectic of unity and dissent]] yesterday. 

# One-on-one with Josh
- He has some contacts at school.
- He doesn't want to take the new UW contact. 

# Planning Valentine's Day
I realized this morning that Valentine's Day is in a little under four weeks. I really want to get it right this year, especially since [[Eylen]] is going to LA two days after, so I want to make it a good one ðŸ¥°. 

I think a good Valentine's involves...
- A gift
- A fun activity
- A fancy dinner

I want to overcome the fact that [[I have a tendency towards passivity]], and plan a great day for us. Unfortunately, I'll be working on that day, and I can't get it off since I have a one-on-one with my manager then. However, maybe I should just hit her up and ask if we can reschedule this once. I should do that. 

First on the agenda should be the dinner, since making a reservation for that evening will be tight if I wait too long. I'm thinking seafood for dinner? Not sure what seafood resturants are best around here. I want it to be fancy but not extreme. But more fancy than the places we tend to go, like the Crab Shack lol.

Eylen said that she wants to do lunch or dinner at the Space Needle lmao.

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
