---
origin: 2022-06-29
---
# ðŸ“… Wednesday, June 29, 2022
ðŸ”€ [[2022-06 June]]
â¬…ï¸ [[2022-06-28]]
âž¡ï¸ [[2022-06-30]]

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
I'm writing so little in this vault because I get done with work around 4:30, and then immediately start loading the car. When the car is loaded, we head over to the townhouse and start unpacking and setting up stuff. 

We went and saw the [[Seattle 2+U office]] today. It was really nice, with free breakfast and lunch that was a really high quality. I think that I'll start heading there a few times a month to crank out some work and enjoy the amenities. 

At the townhouse, things were a little stressful today. So far, we've moved the outdoor furniture, books, Mimi's cat tree, the bookcase, some clothes, the AC, and other assorted stuff. Eylen's mom came over to make us dinner today, which was great. However, we discovered that the hot water wasn't working! It's a tankless system and I don't really know what's going on, but after a while it started working of its own accord again. Also, the HVAC system doesn't seem to really be working consistently either. That was pretty stressful, but I feel like we'll figure it out eventually. 

As of today, the plan is to move assorted non-essentials, half of our silverware and glasses, and prepare for a MVP living situation on Sunday. We're going to get wifi installed on Saturday, so on Sunday we can move the bed, some clothes, and our work desks. That means we can start living there afterwards, and make trips back to the apartment after work each day to get more things. I think that will be more relaxing, as we will be unpacking into our living situation rather than traveling back to an apartment that's increasingly in dissaray as we remove items. 

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```