# ðŸ“… Monday, April 18, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-04-17|previous]] < [[2022-04 April|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-04-19|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Another week begins. The new H Mart in our neighborhood finally opened, but for some reason they removed all the existing H Mart branding and replaced it with signs saying M2M Mart. I have no idea why they would do that... but whatever. We're trying to do 30 days of Korean dinners to celebrate, and it seems to have energized [[Eylen]] in the kitchen! She's helped with 2 dinners in a row so far. 

I'm not going to be able to go to branch this weekend, since Lydia is moving to South Dakota. I feel anxious about missing a branch, especially since there's the big Starbucks rally right afterwards. Maybe I'll try to go to that rally for a little bit. But I need to have my priorities straight - I probably won't see Lydia for many years, and there will be more branches after this weekend. I just have to get everything lined up so that things will run smoothly without me. I have to get somebody else to print the flyers and hand over the papers to somebody, that's the main thing. I'm still going to try and see if we can go to the rally for just a little bit, so that I can at least see what's going on and help out a little bit. 

I need to get the following people to put their schedules on the tabling when2meet:
- [ ] Ava
- [x] Chris
- [x] Freeman
- [x] [[HM]]
- [x] Jacob
- [x] Josh
- [ ] Travis
- [x] Me

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```