# ðŸ“… Tuesday, April 12, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-04-11|previous]] < [[2022-04 April|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-04-13|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
We got back from our trip to Bellingham last night. It was nice to see Celeste and Katie again, as well as catch up with Jesse, Drew, and some other Bellingham [[IMT]] folks. That was probably the highlight of the trip for me - it was a breath of fresh air to be able to chat with organizers that I really relate to, and be able to have political discussions where I didn't feel like it was my job to consolidate them. Honestly, that's a thing I miss about not being politically organized and in the leadership. Nowadays, I feel like the teacher whenever I talk about politics, where once it was just an interesting and fun discussion. 

Anyways, we also saw where Celeste is living. She and Katie are living in a basement of a smaller house in Fairhaven. The neighborhood is really nice but their place is rather dark and it's cold. I think Celeste is too nervous to ask the upstairs neigbors to increase the heat, so we were kind of suffering in there. 

Well, fuck. Today is my one-on-one with my manager Janet, and I was going to float the idea of a six-month raise, especially since inflation is up 6.1% since I started. That means I should be getting paid $71k to be commensurate with my starting salary. But I just realized that I locked myself out of the Atos portal again, I think my password manager crashed or something and didn't record it when I changed my password. That means I have to ask Janet to let me back in. Not a good look for somebody asking for a raise! 

```raise-math
$67,000    current annual
$32.22     current hourly

$69,000    3% raise annual
$33.18     3% raise hourly

$70,000    4.4% raise annual
$33.28     4.4% raise hourly

$71,088    starting annual pay, adjusted for 6.1% inflation
$34.18     starting wage, adjusted for inflation
```


# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
