# ðŸ“… Tuesday, January 11, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-01-10|previous]] <--- [[2022-01 January|month]] // [[journal]] ---> [[2022-01-12|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
%%What did you do today, and how did it make you feel?%%
Today I feel really tired, and I'm not sure why. We got enough sleep, maybe it's just the grey weather that makes me feel like I need to take a nap, despite the fact that I just woke up. I'm really not looking forward to 1:30 pm today, which is the time that I have to stop eating in preparation for my scope tomorrow. Honestly, I'm just hoping that I don't still have to make dinner tonight, seeing as I won't be able to eat it. 

I feel like I've been kind of disconnected from reality in terms of my note-taking. I want to actually ground myself by trying to actually *output* something useful like a blog post or article. Or maybe I should just try and work on the stashlogix project, since I haven't touched that in a little while. 

I think that I've been too focused on one part of the cognitive process. I just keep taking in more and more data and developing abstractions, but I rarely combine those abstractions into perspectives. [[Cognition consists of movement between the abstract and the concrete]], and I've been neglecting the latter half of this process. Therefore, I should channel my intellectual energy into meaningful production of content.  

I just heard an interesting contradiction in simple math. We can prove that 0.999 repeating is actually equal to one. 

$$x = 0.9999...$$
$$10x = 9.999...$$
$$10x-x = 9$$
$$9x = 9$$
$$x=1$$
$$0.999... = 1$$
Approached another way, we can also say...
$$\frac{1}{3} = 0.333...$$
$$0.333... \cdot 3 = 0.999...$$
I guess this makes sense if you say that the difference between 0.99 repeating and one is *infinitely small.*

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
