# ðŸ“… Thursday, January 06, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-01-05|previous]] <--- [[2022-01 January|month]] // [[journal]] ---> [[2022-01-07|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
%%What did you do today, and how did it make you feel?%%
I tried to pick up the bowel prep at the pharmacy yesterday because I have a colonoscopy next week. However, they told me that my insurance didn't cover it at all, which was really frustrating. I told them to bill through my Atos insurance, and if they didn't cover it, then to bill it to my Medicaid. Am I going to have to go through this whole process for every medical expense? Very frustrating. 

At our weekly [[Atos]] meeting, we just learned that we may be getting laptops after the Microsoft budget is finalized in June! That would be really nice. I also learned that I can go ahead and move wherever I want and keep this job!

I got my new frames today and I feel really good about them. They're just a lot more clear than the ones I was wearing (since my recent pair broke, I was actually wearing my backups) and they look pretty good. They're thicker than I expected, since they're large frames, and [[Eylen]] commented on that when I got home. It made me realize we have very different ways of percieving things sometimes. I see something I don't like, and I rationalize why it isn't so bad. I thought, "Oh, that's pretty thick, but I will just get used to it." It's almost like I'm forcing myself to believe that it isn't really a big deal. On the other hand, Eylen sees things more rationally I think. Her first instict is to actually notice how big it is and express some disappointment about that. Regardless, it really is fine even if the lenses are pretty thick. What am I going to do, send them back? They're still a big improvement!

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
