# ðŸ“… Thursday, February 17, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-16|previous]] < [[2022-02 February|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-18|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today's the first day of Eylen's LA trip. I'm trying to stick to my routines and really feel out what it means to be alone. When she's gone, I tend to act like a kid whose parents are away. I really want to avoid that this time. I want to feel out what my life would really be like without her, and not necessarily in a negative way. I want to feel confident in my ability to exist as a single person. 

I have a few goals for the time that she'll be away. I want to carve out a day for me to take [[LSD|acid]], because I've been wanting to do a solo trip for quite some time. I want to get out of the house every day, and I want to eat well. These are things I didn't make time for last time she was gone, and I want to prove to myself that I'm capable of living my best life without her. 

I'm certainly keeping myself busy today. I have my disagreement review, since it's Thursday. After that, I have a contact meeting, and then a one-on-one with Jake. In the evening, it's our first Marxist Classics reading group, which is new ground for the Seattle branch! Unfortunately, it means that I have to miss [[Aikido]], which I have every day this week. Life just creeps up on you sometimes and things get busy. I know my priorities. Life comes first, then [[IMT]], then Aikido. 

My other goal today is to beat the Devil in Cuphead. I'm so close that I can taste it!

I just read a resolution from the IMT IEC, and I need to add a few things to our next branch >> [[2022-02-26 branch]]. 

# Starbucks rally
Our intervention at the Starbucks Roastery was excellent! It was headed by the centrist labor organization "MLK Labor Council," and their idea was to all order drinks and make the names "Union Yes." We thought it was silly to show support for the workers by asking them to make us drinks, so we just talked to the woman at the register, and we were even able to slip her a pamphlet! We gave out another pamphlet to a worker who came to talk to the union reps. Overall, we turned a shitty idea into an opportunity. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
