---
origin: 2022-07-16
---
# ðŸ“… Saturday, July 16, 2022
ðŸ”€ [[2022-07 July]]
â¬…ï¸ [[2022-07-15]]
âž¡ï¸ [[2022-07-17]]

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today was a weekend, but it was practically as busy as a weekday for us. I woke up, ate a quick breakfast, and headed to our old apartment to oversee the sale of Eylen's dresser. The woman who wanted to buy it showed up with a tiny sedan, and I probably spent 30 minutes trying to get it to fit in there! Finally, I had to go ask a neighbor for a screwdriver so that we could remove the legs. 

After that, I was going to go pick up my posters from USPS (since I delivered them to the wrong address lmao), but fortunately I checked and saw that the place was closed until Monday. So instead, I went to Top Pot and got some coffee and read my book for an hour. That was really nice.

After an hour or so, it was time for me to head to Fremont to meet with Maral, Chris, Josh, Daniel (who just moved down here this week) and a few of Maral's friends for a tabling session at the [[Lenin]] statue. Maral's friend became a contact, and Maral demonstrated the benefits of starting with "Are you a socialist?" which got lots of engagement. I think we sold at least 6 papers / pamphlets, and got three contacts.

That session was great, and I feel like we should really get out there again. I know external work isn't my strong suit, but I need to work on that because it really connects us to the rest of the world, and reading alone is stagnating. 

At about 3:30, I headed over to Golden Gardens where Jeff and Ari were hosting a cookout on the beach. Rae, Jordan, and Ari's friends Nolan and Penelope (?) also came. Weirdly enough, right next to us there was a bachelorette party where Marina, Owen, and Christina were hanging out. Small world, right? So we all hung out together. The bachelorette party had a pole set up and a DJ playing. Also Nolan became a contact lol.

When the park closed at 10, Eylen and I gave Daniel a ride home and decided to go inside to see his new place. We were introduced to his roomates, Seb, Levi, and a third person who actually didn't live there, whose name I can't recall. Maybe his name was John. Anyway, we saw his place, which reminds me of a Bellingham house, but a nice one. Then, we all decided to go to a bar called the Monkey Pub and played pool. Seb described it as "divey, but cozy" and that was very accurate. Weirdly enough, it seems like the manager / owner was having a birthday party there, and speakers were getting up to a mic to talk about how he made the bar so welcoming for everyone. 

Like I said, we played some pool, but my team (me, Daniel, and Eylen) lost after I scratched trying to get the 8 ball in! It was a pretty close game. After we had played our game of pool we decided to walk to a nearby pizza place where I got some wings. At this point, it was 1AM, and Eylen and I felt like college kids again, spontaneously going out late. We just thought we were dropping Daniel off and going home! 

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```