# ðŸ“… Monday, January 31, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-01-30|previous]] < [[2022-01 January|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-01|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today is the day we find out if we will be buying a condo! It's really making me nervous, because we actually have a shot at getting it. We weren't able to sleep very well last night, and we've been talking about it all day so far. We have a phone call with the lenders to get the updated rates, and then we have a phone call with Robert Street, our [[real estate]] agent. The offer review date is at noon today, so we'll likely known by this evening!

We're basically going all-out here. [[Eylen]] will only have $2,000 in cash after we close the deal and put the earnest money down. Of course, she still has like 30k in stocks, but she doesn't want to sell them since the market is kind of down this week. 

This has made me put some more thought towards how I'm going to record my equity share over time. The basic division between Eylen and I will be based on total investment percentage, and that's how we'll divide the percentage of ownership in the value of the home. 

$$
E_{PN} = \text{V} \cdot \frac{I_{PN}}{C}
$$

The equity owned by me ($E_{PN}$) equals the value of the home when we sell it ($V$), times the proportion of the cost of the loan ($C$) that was paid by my investment ($I_{PN}$). 

For example, if we buy the home for $100,000, the loan will be for $80,000. If I contribute

# Our offer
- Full price offer with escalation up to $470,000 in $5,000 increments
- $15,000 earnest money
- Close on 3-01
- Waive inspection
- Waive information verification period
- 20% down payment
- $10,000 in appraisal coverage

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
