# ðŸ“… Friday, February 11, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-10|previous]] < [[2022-02 February|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-12|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today has gotten off to a slow start. We went to a show last night, and got home pretty late. We slept in as long as possible, and haven't really started the day yet as I write this around 11 AM. I don't have anything going on, so I don't really mind. 

Last night, I had an okay time at the show. It was nice to get out of the house and see some live music, but I felt a lot of social pressure to dance. I was thinking about how every time I see a show, I get way too in my head about how I'm dancing, and if I'm dancing "enough." It feels like I have a responsibility to dance or else the artist thinks I don't like their music, or other people think I'm lame. It just isn't that fun to feel that kind of pressure. This was made worse by the fact that as we walked home, [[Eylen]] was drunk and yelling about how I was a "party pooper." That was kind of exhausting. 

I've been feeling pretty un-supported and alone lately. It feels like I can't rely on anyone in my life for emotional support. Usually I can rely on Eylen, but not when it's her comments that are the source of my painful feelings. She has an unfortunate habit of doubling down whenever I express that a comment of hers has hurt my feelings. I think she just doesn't see what the effects of her actions are in the moment. 

I don't know what I want. I feel alone already, and the idea of being single is like staring into the abyss. I barely remember what it's like to be single, and I've never really had a single adult existence. It seems terrible from what I see others around me going through. That makes me feel like the relationship between Eylen and I is something to hold on to no matter what. I just want to learn how to express my needs in a way that will reach her without her getting defensive. Otherwise, my resentment just builds up over time until I say something that I don't really mean. From her perspective, it just isn't fair for me to act like everything's okay just to blow up out of nowhere. Fundamentally, I'm realizing that [[Emotions can't be ignored forever]]. 

```Nerdle scratchpad
Nums: 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 
Ops : +, -, 

7-1+_=1_ 

Contains a plus AND minus. 
Final result must be > 10 since no zero.
Equation MUST contain 4, 7. 

1-1+1=01
4-1+8=11
7-1+5=11

7-1+7=13
7-1+8=14

---
Nums: 1, 3, 5, 8, 9
Ops : +, -, x

MUST contain: 1, 5, 6, +

1 - - - - - - -



```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
