---
origin: 2022-06-07
---
# ðŸ“… Tuesday, June 07, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-06-06|previous]] < [[2022-06 June|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-06-08|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today we almost locked in our mortgage rate, and I almost screwed up. When deciding to buy down points or not, my calculator assumed the minimum mortgage payment, so of course, buying down points was a better option. However, under our accelerated plan of paying the house off in six or seven years, we actually don't benefit from buying points. I feel like a bit of an idiot, because we really don't have that much spare cash right now and this is going to run us an extra $6,000, of which we're only going to get $3,000 back over the next six years. 

# Discussion with Melissa at NFM Lending
I spoke with Melissa at NFM Lending, who raised the possibility of waiving the appraisal altogether, since the loan underwriters (Fannie Mae / Freddie Mac) said they're confident the price is accurate. This would save us $900-$1,000, as well as speed up the close since appraisals take two weeks or so. I said that I'm open to it, and Melissa said she would speak with our agent about it. 

Discussing overpayment, she said there are no pre-payment penalties and that we can either do lump sum overpayments, or automatically overpay every month by a specified amount. 

We also discussed the issue of points. I explained that we were planning on overpaying and really being aggressive, and she argued for a more conservative approach, reminding me that utilities, homeowners insurance, and property tax will all increase over time. 

She used her own calculator to find the "break even" dates for options B (0.5 points) and C (0 points), and said that for option B, we would break even on our points investment after five years. 

She is going to lunch, but will send us updated plans with costs broken down at 1:30 or 2:00 pm, and then give us a call to discuss it. 

# Additional questions
- What payment is being used to calculate the break even date? Minimum? Can you plug in projected break-even dates with higher than minimum payments?
	- Total monthly income is $13,916, average monthly costs are $1,613, leaving $12,303 available for mortgage / utilities / savings. 
	- Minimum payment of $4,300 has a break even date of ___
	- Conservative overpayment of $6,000 (50% of discretionary) has a break even date of ___ 
	- Pretty aggressive plan of $8,600 (70% of discretionary) has a break even date of ___
	- Aggressive overpayment of $9,800 (80% of discretionary) has a break even date of ___

# Second discussion with Melissa
- General comments
	- Our P&I payment could change if we *recast* our payment. Otherwise it's the same
	- Hazard insurance: homeowners insurance (estimated at $75 monthly)
	- Real estate taxes paid twice a year, paid on our behalf throught the lender. These will increase every February
	- Title charges are estimated since escrow firm decides that, but total closing costs will be pretty accurate
	- They will collect advance taxes from us as part of the reserve / prepaid costs
	- First payment in Aug 1 will pay for July 1 - July 31
	- Homeowners insurance for 12 months due when we close. We give escrow the cash for that, they pay the insurer. They also collect 2 months cushion
	- She suggests getting three homeowners insurance quotes
	- We need an amortization chart to figure out what the best choice for points will be
	- We can *re-lock* on today's prices until the closing disclosure goes out. Final approval for loan needs to be done by the 21st, changing rate too late would make it harder to make the deadline. 
	- Ten days from close, if the rate with NFM are one "basis point" less than your locked price, they will lower the rate for you
	- Their real rates for today are higher, but Oleg is giving us a discount (?). 
- Option B
	- Break-even in 5 years
- Option A 
	- Break-even in 5.34 years

# Homeowner's insurance quotes
[Progressive](https://progressivehome.boltinc.com/YourRates) (Quote NumberÂ 2816-7309-5424)
Geico: see emailed quote

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```