# ðŸ“… Wednesday, April 20, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-04-19|previous]] < [[2022-04 April|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-04-21|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Last night Eylen and I had a really stupid fight. It began with a long conversation about where we're each putting our energy, which boiled down to a sense that Eylen had that I wasn't putting enough energy into building a future for our family. I understand why she feels that way, since she's the main driver behind all the real planning - career, getting a home, etc. On the other hand, I don't like the feeling that I'm being pressured to move out of a phase of my life that I'm really enjoying. But at the end of the day, I know that I need to be preparing for the future. I'm almost at the halfway point of my 20s, and when I'm 30, I don't want to look around and realize that I'm still in the same place I was when I moved down here from Bellingham. It's time for me to grow up a little bit and start helping out with the plans that Eylen is setting up. 

That starts with me finding a second job. I know that I could do a second WFH job just fine on top of my current [[Atos]] gig, and I would have time for the [[IMT]] in that too. My only worry is that getting another job will only exacerbate our issues with how much energy I put into the IMT, since I'm not willing to decrease my involvement at this stage, regardless of the other stuff on my plate. 

But anyway, back to the job hunt. My new goal is to have five warm applications a week, and we're going to have a check-in every Friday morning where I present the work I've done in the week. I want this to replace the current system, which is Eylen hinting or explicitly telling me that I need another job all the time, and me resenting her for not appreciating me. This will be a good structure that will allow for boundaries in terms of the constant pressure on me. But on the other hand, I always need to remember that [[I have a tendency towards passivity]] which should be fought against. The best way to counter her constant criticism is to actually improve. 

In other news, Leon reached out and said that they're hiring old TAs again for evening / weekend shifts for [[Metis]]. I might take him up on that, depending on how flexible the hours are. I don't want to get myself into something that's not going to really increase my pay, but will eat up my energy for applying to other positions. I asked him a few questions about the role, and I'll see what he says when he gets back to me. 

```metis-math
$1288.50    current gross income per week
$120        gross Metis income per shift

$1648.50    gross weekly income w 3 Metis shifts (+28%)
$3297       gross paycheck w 3 Metis shifts

$2340.87    take-home paycheck with 28% deducted (conservative estimate)

$85,722     annualized gross income w 3 Metis shifts
```

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```