# ðŸ“… Thursday, April 14, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-04-13|previous]] < [[2022-04 April|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-04-15|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
John let me know today that he is feeling a little burnt out and wants to take a step back from the [[IMT]]. It's a dissapointment, but after looking at our membership numbers (see [[SEA-IMT roster]]), I knew some sort of decline was on the way sooner or later. I'm calling him this afternoon to see if he would be open to retaining a biweekly meeting with me to keep him in the loop. I find that people tend to overreact to their immediate bandwidth, both by overcommiting when they feel enegetic, and then pulling back too far when they feel burnt out. Who knows how he'll feel in a few weeks. It only took Josh one week to return to activity after feeling burnt out. [[Human thought is prone to short-term overfitting]]! 

It makes me sad that some of the more experienced members are feeling burnt out, and Jacob shows no signs of returning to an active presence in branch. However, I suppose this is how it will always be. Not everyone is cut out for this kind of lifestyle, you have to be a really weird person to dedicate as much time to it as I have. However, I remain optimistic based on the new people that are entering our branch every month or two. 

Nevertheless, I need to prepare for [[2022-04-16 branch]]. 

# Reading group notes
- [x] Why did the Soviet [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]] grow more powerful rather than withering away?
- [x] Did Glasnost represent a desire to force the state to wither away?
- [x] What is the [[dictatorship of the proletariat]]? What is its purpose?
- [ ] Why can the overthrow of bourgeois rule only be accomplished by the proletariat?
- [ ] Why does the proletariat need a state at all?
- [ ] Why was the Russian revolution compelled "to concentrate all its forces of destruction" on the bourgeois state created in February 1917?
- [ ] What is the difference between the recognition of the class struggle and Marxism?

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
