---
origin: 2022-07-21
---
# ðŸ“… Thursday, July 21, 2022
ðŸ”€ [[2022-07 July]]
â¬…ï¸ [[2022-07-20]]
âž¡ï¸ [[2022-07-22]]

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Just got back from the [[Seattle 2+U office]]. It was really nice to sit at one of their desks and crank out some work. At the start of this sprint I was feeling overwhelmed, but now I feel like I have it under control heading into the weekend (since I have tomorrow off). 

We've been getting swamped with contacts recently, with the IMU bringing a lot of attention to our group on the international level. It's really nice to have Daniel down here and pulling a lot of weight already. We need to focus on professionalization and engagement with the newer members. They're not going to be the new person for long at this rate.

In more serious news, the events in the Canadian section finally broke on our branch, with Freeman messaging me out of the blue that he's not going to be a member of the [[IMT]] because of the accusations made against Fightback. The Seattle branch committee is going to hold a meeting Monday evening to discuss this: [[2022-07-25 BC]]. 

Newt invited us to an art fair at Lumen field today, so we went there this afternoon with Marina and Owen. It was really interesting to see the cool artwork. There was even a famous painting there, *The Kiss* by Klimt. I was shocked to see it there, but then Newt explained that the artist made many versions, so it isn't as rare and crazy as we thought. 

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```