# ðŸ“… Sunday, February 20, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-02-19|previous]] < [[2022-02 February|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-02-21|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today is the second day of [[2022-02 Marxist Winter School]]. I also have my meeting with Freeman (finally). I want to get out of the house somehow today, but it's really rainy. I'm not sure what to do today, but I'm starting to look forward to [[Eylen]] getting back. I guess it just takes three or four days for the pleasant aspect of solitude to wear off. 

# Contact with Freeman
- Our position on gun control
	- Capitalist gun control represents a bourgois defensive manuver (disarming workers)
	- Need for a [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]] to take real action against gun violence
- Our position on militancy
	- The visible militancy of the [[Black Panther Party]] was used to destroy them
	- How can we walk the tightrope of attracting the most militant members of the class without premature destruction?
- [[What role do Marxists play?]]
	- The Marxists have the duty to construct the *skeleton* of the future mass movement, not the duty to do everything. 
	- Military analogy: at West Point, weapons training is a relatively minor part of the curriculum. 
	- Furthermore, our *weapons* are different from the bourgeois toolkit. They use the media, the lies of politicians, the pressure of the bosses, and the clubs and tear gas of the police. We use our press, meetings, and slogans to steer the workers' movement, which is incomprehensibly stronger than the [[state]]. 
	- At a certain point, armed defense will certainly be needed. We called for armed committees of the working class during the [[June 2020 uprising]] in places like Minneapolis. However it is not our historical mission to fill the ranks of those committes. 
	- Historically, revolutions have not failed due to a lack of weapons training or armaments. Revolutions fail due to lack of perspective, will, and leadership. That's what we seek to provide. Really, if the revolution fails to attract layers of the military, or at least breaks the will of the military to defend the state, it has already failed even if we all have rifles. 
		- EX: Egyptian revolution failed due to an alternative leadership besides the Muslim Brotherhood, Spanish revolution failed due to the unwillingness of the workers' organizations to break with the capitalists, German revolution failed for the same reason combined with ultraleftism, I could go on...
	- This does not mean that we're an unserious organization or that we will meekly remain within the confines of bourgeois legality. The British comrades in the 80s made serious plans to go underground if they were banned by the state, which was an impending possibility due to their meteoric rise. Notably, the comrades failed, not as a result of a lack of militancy or willingness to fight, but because of a lack of clarity and an adventuristic attitude. 
	- In fact, the idea that leftists need to prepare for open warfare is the unserious idea. The military is the most trusted institution in American life, despite its crimes. This would only change if the military was used against the American people, and it would first be used against any leftist guerellas. By engaging in guerellaism, leftists would isolate themselves from the working class (who don't want to kill anyone generally), and the division would be used by the media to crucify them
	- Instead, we have to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the workers and rely on their strength for our protection. This is the difference between a movement like the CPUSA of the 20s who were able to build in seriously repressive conditions, and the BPP who were massacred and are mostly in prison. The difference was that the CPUSA was connected to the working class and therefore couldn't be targeted as directly or else open class war would be risked. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
