# ðŸ“… Monday, March 14, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-03-13|previous]] < [[2022-03 March|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-03-15|next]] 
#daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
Today is International Pi Day, and is also the 2-year anniversary of me joining the [[IMT]]. 

> [!New Feature]
> Obsidian now has native support for admonitions! I love it when I can remove a third party dependency. I have a ton of them and I want to keep it manageable. 

I'm filling out a values worksheet with [[Eylen]], and it's made me think more carefully about why I'm really working on building the [[IMT]] so hard. I think the standard explanation would be that I value doing the right thing and activism, but I'm not totally sure that's it. In other aspects of my life I don't really care about "doing the right thing." For example, I don't recycle or donate to charity. 

Another possible rationale would be that I want to make a difference in the world. I also don't think that explains my dedication. I wouldn't really mind that much if nothing came of my work except establishing a little reading group. 

Honestly, it makes more sense to think of my involvement in the IMT as an identity that I'm creating and maintaining as a Marxist. It's a label that makes me feel comfortable, and when I put in the work to build the organization, it satisfies my desire to conform to my selected identifier. 

I have some news updates to attach to [[2022-03-19 branch]]. 

# âœï¸ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
