---
origin: 2022-05-26
---
# ðŸ“… Thursday, May 26, 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-05-25|previous]] < [[2022-05 May|month]] // [[journal]] > [[2022-05-27|next]] 
`TAGS:` #daily

---
# ðŸ’­ Thoughts and feelings
I woke up really early today and couldn't go back to sleep. I spent a stupid amount of time tinkering with my [[dataview]] queries, only to find that just quitting Obsidian and restarting solved the problem. I still can't get dataview to use a custom YAML field `origin`, but whatever. I'm still going to start collecting origin dates and maybe I can figure out how to use them later. 

I'm feeling a lot more centered today than I was yesterday. I still don't fully understand why I was feeling that way yesterday, I'm just chalking it up to the emotional rollercoaster of the last week. As the day has gone on, I've gotten a lump of anxiety in my stomach as my offer letter still hasn't come in. I know in my brain that it isn't a big deal, and companies *never* rescind an offer after they've made a decision. But I can't help but imagine the worst possible scenario. Even if that *were* to happen, I would just want to get it over with. What I really hate is the uncertainty of what my future will hold. I'm really fine with my current income and lifestyle. Really, Eylen would be more disappointed than me if I didn't end up getting this new job. 

I'm going to have to scale up my task management system with this new job. I don't think a single task list is really going to cut it, but we'll see. I don't want to create too much overhead before the job even starts. As much as I want to prepare a great system, the ideal structure is going to emerge as I actually begin the job. [[Emergent associations beat predetermined categorization]]. 

Later today, I have [[2022-06-09 reading group]]. I'm leading it since [[Josh Creech|Josh]] can't go. I feel like I haven't been to a reading group in a month. It turned out that nobody besides Chris showed up, so we're delaying it by two weeks. 

*Vive La Revolution* from Haymarket books <-- Chris' recommendation. Bakunin was also considered by Lenin to have written the definitive history of the French revolution. 

# ðŸ“ Today's notes
```dataview
LIST 
FROM ""
WHERE file.ctime > this.file.day and file.ctime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.ctime
```
# âœï¸ Today's edits
```dataview
LIST
FROM ""
WHERE file.cday < this.file.day
WHERE file.mtime > this.file.day and file.mtime < (this.file.day + dur(1 day))
SORT file.mtime
```