# [[IMT]] Branch, 5-2-20
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/political

---
## Current events
There are waves of protest of [[petty bourgeoisie|petty bourgeois]] character, and waves of strikes at major employers such as Amazon and Target. 

## Political discussion on The Balance Sheet of October
>Unlike the development of [[capitalism]], which relies on the market for the allocation of resources, a nationalised economy requires conscious planning and direction. This cannot be undertaken successfully by a handful of bureaucrats in Moscow, even if they were [[Marx]], [[Engels]], [[Lenin]] and [[Trotsky]]. Such a state of affairs requires the involvement of the mass of the population in the running of industry and [[state]]. Only a regime of workers’ democracy would be capable of harnessing the talent and initiative of society. A regime of bureaucratic mismanagement would inevitably lead to the eventual seizure of the economy as it became more sophisticated and technologically advanced.
    
## BC meeting report from JW
-   Proposed list of leadoffs for the next few weeks. 
	-   5/9:Will there be a slump? JM. 
	-    5/16: Materialism and marxism. Bryce. 
    -   5/23: Russian revolution. JW. 
    -   5/30: German revolution. Ryan. 
    -   6/6: [[Stalinism]]. My leadoff. 
-   Proposed new branch meeting time of 5pm on Saturday.     
-   Encouraging more preparation for branch political discussions.     
-   Adding a point for socialization before or after meetings.     
-   The official Fighting Fund appeal and collection is on the 23rd.     
-   [[The State and Revolution (1917)]] group is ending, and is beginning [[The Transitional Program (1938)]].