# [[IMT]] Area Committee, 3-18-21
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## Branch Resources
One-on-ones would be great but we don't have a lot of extra bandwith right now. But we shouldn't schedule one-on-ones just to do it. We should be really flexible with these sorts of meetings. 

Revolutionary optimism and revolutionary patience are the key words here. That's what the AC needs to be instilling in the branch. 

Where's everyone at:
*Claire:* busy but getting less busy. Wants to get more involved. 
*Ryan:* kind of inconsistent. 
*Drew:* stepping up a bit more this month.
*Jesse:* taking a step back.
*Krissy:* very busy at her job but would get more involved if that changed.
*Tom:* possibly could do more?
*Vyom:* political issues lol.
*Aadil:* inactive member for now.
*Jeff:* getting sick a lot recently, overworked. 

## AC Proposed Slate
| Position               | Candidate       |
| ---------------------- | --------------- |
| Branch Secretary       | Jacob           |
| Press Officer (BHAM)   | Jesse           |
| Finance Officer (BHAM) | Tom or Patrick  |
| Finance Officer (SEA)  | Patrick         |
| Press Officer (SEA)    | Jacob / Patrick |
| Contacts Officer       | Patrick         | 

