# [[IMT]] Branch, Saturday Jan 23rd, 2020
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- Strike at the Hunt's Point Market in NY. The organized labor movement is stirring. 
- Instacart laid off 10,000 members who had attempted and failed to unionize. 
- Bellingham homeless encampment by city hall (camp 210) was the site of protests against the Mayor. 
	- Activism surrounding the camp is very narrow in focus
- Russian protests against Putin's jailing of Alexei Navalny. 
- [[Biden]] has been inagurated as the 46th President of the US. 

## Political Discussion: [[What is Historical Materialism (2016)]] (second half)
- Economic base produces superstructure, the superstructure reinforces the base. The two have a dialectical relationship. 
- [[primitive communism]] developed due to the new ability of humans to perform [[labor]]. 
- Barbarism developed due to increase in the productive forces 
	- Foraging / gathering --> agriculture
	- Increase in surplus --> specialization of [[labor]], formation of class society
	- Development of mettalurgy --> further dev of the productive forces
- Asiatic MoP
	- Rigid hierarchy
	- Despotic state with god-king or pharaoh
	- State bases power on land ownership
- Questions
	- If there were no outside changes that could have disrupted Asiatic-MoP societies, what would happen to them?
	- What are the major [[contradiction|contradictions]] in our current MoP?
	- Differences between asiatic MoP and feudalism?
		- Asiatic: semi-autonomous communes dependent on the centralized state
		- Feudalism: individual families of peasants tied to the land, under rule by a local lord that is linked to the rest of the aristocracy. 
- My intervention
	- It was striking to see the similarities between the scenes from the decaying systems and today. Groups that predict apocalypse. General feelings of depression and despair, lack of a future. 
	- Today we can see the QAnon stuff, and even the rise of astrology among younger people as the same sorts of attempts to make sense of a world whose institutions no longer have any meaning, and seems to be in decline. 
	- The COVID pandemic is exactly the same sort of historical accident expressing an inevitable collapse in capitalism's ability to effectively manage society. 
	- We can also see a parallel between what happened with Martin Luther and the GOP, weirdly enough. Their totally cynical use of the language of rural people and the most backward elements of the working class and the lumpenproletariat culminated in protestors breaching the Capitol. They then turned against these people who they motivated, seeing that they had gone too far. 