 # [[IMT]] Branch, 4-17-21
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- Protests erupt again in Minneapolis after the police kill another unarmed Black man. Depending on the result of the Chauvin trial, these protests may intensify. Marxists should pay close attention to the behavior of the national guard as the working class is brought into direct confrontation with their forces. 
- Media claims that [[Biden]] is pulling out of Afghanistan, but the real story is that he is delaying the [[Trump]] pullout plan by a few months.
- A split is beginning to form between the tendency of [[Anarchism]] and that of [[liberalism]] within the protest movement. The role of a Marxist party is to direct the class anger expressed by these protests towards something lasting and truly revolutionary instead of into the iron wall of the state as the anarchists would do, and instead of dissapating it like the liberals would.

## The Chinese Revolution
*This leadoff is loosely based on [[The Chinese Revolution of 1949 (2019)]] but includes content from [[China - From Permanent Revolution to Counter-Revolution (2016)]] as well as other sources.*

==Goal: 4000 words==

### Introduction
This leadoff covers the article by [[Alan Woods]] on the 1949 revolution, but I decided to do some additional research to flesh out the situation surrounding the previous revolution. China is one of the most controversial issues on the modern left today. There's a whole range of opinion on the nature of China's state. Some call China downright fascist and parrot US state department propaganda uncritically. On the other hand, there are certainly those who praise China as a living [[dictatorship of the proletariat]], saying that all true socialists need to get in line behind the Chinese Communist Party. As Americans, our position on China is really important, so it's worth examining in detail.

### Dialectical Materialism
We know that the method of Marxism is dialectical materialism. One important principle here is that we have to talk about things in the context of what process they're going through, and examine them by looking at the internal forces that are pulling this way and that on whatever we're analyzing.

Many on the left who call themselves socialists, and even many who call themselves Marxist fail to really apply this method. They argue over the details of the immediate moment. Every time the Communist Party imposes some restriction on a company, those on the left side cheer, while they fall silent at every new introduction of market mechanisms to the country.  They totally lack any understanding of the underlying forces that cause the Chinese state to veer first to the right, and then to the left again. They attempt to view the Chinese state as a totally finished product, which has to fall into one category or another, either capitalist or communist. 

### Intro to 1925
So what are these forces that pull China to and fro? In order to examine them, it will help us immensely to look backwards to the two defining revolutions that the current state of affairs sprung out of. First I will give a brief overview of the failed revolution of 1925, and then I'll do the same for the successful revolution in 1949 that more people are familiar with. By looking at these two events, we will see a lot of patterns that are repeated across many revolutions, successful and failed. By the end of our series of leadoffs on revolutions, I'm sure that some of you will get a little bored of us talking about the same kinds of processes again and again. However, we have to understand past events in order to not make the same mistakes, as you'll soon see can be a problem even for those that lived through the events themselves. 

So, to set the scene for the first revolution, China in 1925 was much like Russia before 1917. There was a growing working class in the cities, who were becoming more and more conscious of their exploitation, and of the power that they held. Surrounding them were millions of peasants, who had less of a revolutionary [[class consciousness]], but were becoming more and more furious at the excesses of the landlords, China's leftovers from a recent feudal past. 

### Issue of Class Independence
However, the similarities between China and pre-revolution Russia end when we begin talking about the tactics used by the Communists in China. In Russia, the Bolsheviks always took a clear stance of class independence. They never allied with any representatives of the capitalists, and only ever tried to base their support on the working class and the advanced layer of the peasantry who could be led by those workers. They understood that they had a fundamentally different class interest from the capitalists and the liberals who represented them. Even if a coalition with the liberals would have given them the appearance of power, the Bolsheviks knew that kind of power was an illusion, and the liberals would inevitably betray them and side with the forces fighting against the revolution.

The Communists in China, however, were mired in a deep, deep bog of class collaborationism. Under the leadership of Mao and [[Stalin]], the Communists had entered into an alliance with the [[Kuomintang]], who I'll refer to as the KMT. Their leader was Chiang Kai-shek, and the party was the political representative of the national bourgeoisie, the national capitalist class in China. 

### Stage-ism of Mao and Stalin
Why would Mao and Stalin favor such an approach? It all comes down to their theories about the [[evolution]] of society. They had a mechanical, stage-like approach to this question. They think that first society has a capitalist revolution, and then after that, society has a socialist revolution. This is understandable, since we know that the material basis for socialism is created by capitalism. Capitalism makes abundance possible, and it creates the working class, the only class that has the power to topple capitalism once and for all. Some Marxists said that socialist revolution in Russia was impossible because capitalism hadn't had the chance to create the conditions for socialism yet, and even Lenin was among these people before his mind changed in 1917. 

However, we know that it was indeed possible to carry through a socialist revolution in Russia. We can see this from the facts of history! This revolution was unable to complete its historical task of the advancement of humanity past capitalism, but it was nevertheless able to begin this journey, and to move beyond the demands made by bourgeois revolutions like the ones in [[France]] and England.

### Permanent Revolution
There was one person who developed a theory that predicted this course of events. It was Trotsky. His theory of permanent revolution predicted that since capitalism was the dominant mode of production on a global scale, and since capitalism had developed into a system of international imperialism, the national bourgeoisie of the colonized countries didn't play the same role as they had when the capitalist class was just emerging. The capitalists in Russia, and China as well, as we will see, were totally subservient to the international capitalist class, who had no interest in pursuing national independence for China to the end. While the national bourgeoisie halfheartedly pushed for reforms, they were far more afraid of the working class and the peasants than they were angry at the imperialists. In fact, the national bourgeoisie were dedicated to preventing the sort of gains from occuring like they had in previous bourgeois revolutions. They were totally dependent on investments from the global capitalist class. 

Unfortunately, this perspective was totally missing in the leadership of the Communist Party of China. Mao was confident in the supposed revolutionary potential of the KMT and of Chiang Kai-shek, who Stalin even invited to become an honorary member of the Communist International at one point. 

### Limitations imposed by Chiang Kai-shek
Chiang knew that the Communists were dedicated to remaining members in the KMT's coalition. He knew he had leverage, and he used it. He demanded that the CCP stop criticizing the KMT's policies from the left, and that they place all their activites under the control of the KMT. No strikes, protests, or instructions of any kind were allowed to be ordered from the leaders of the Chinese Communists without the approval of the KMT. Can you imagine Lenin agreeing to a single one of these terms! He never allowed for this kind of binding of the revolutionary party, even when entering into alliances with other socialist factions, let a lone a faction that represented the capitalist class. 

However, Mao and Stalin thought this was an excellent plan. They even agreed to hand over lists of all the Communists in the KMT to the central leadership, which was a clear preparation for a purge at best, and a slaughter at worst. And as we'll see, a slaughter is exactly what happened. 

### Betrayal in Shanghai
At the time, some areas of China were still controlled by local warlords, including the city of Shanghai. The military forces of the KMT were approaching the city, and the working class in the city was doing its best to hasten their victory. The unions, dominated by Communists, called a general strike to weaken the warlord, and actually succeded in taking over the city all by themselves! Their banners welcomed the arrival of Chiang and the KMT, although some were beginning to worry that the soldiers seemed to still be prepared for conflict.

The military of the KMT had different layers, and while it was mostly loyal to the capitalists, there were some troops that had Communist leanings. It was one of these groups that reached the city first. They offered to remain in the city to defend the workers, but were ordered to leave by the Communist leadership, who seemed desperate to paper over their obvious differences with the KMT and Chiang Kai-shek.

To call what happened next a surprise betrayal would be to ignore the warning signs that Chiang had been loudly announcing for months ahead of time. However, the leadership of the Communist Party chose to ignore these signs, and actively worked to ensure that the advanced workers continued to have faith that the KMT was on their side. Chiang's troops entered the city, and began to indescriminately execute any workers who were suspected of having taken part in the strike, and especially if they were suspected Communists. Women with short hair or unbound feet were also shot on suspicion of Communist activity.

Over 5,000 workers and Communists were killed in the attack, and in the following months, three hundred thousand died in a massive swath of killings throughout the country as the KMT conducted a brutal purge of all Communists. This was the most avoidable tragedy of the international Communist movement that I've ever heard of personally. The Communists had the support of the whole working class, who were spontaneously taking over cities, and they chose to snatch defeat from almost guaranteed victory by putting themselves under the direction of the capitalists.

### Results of the Betrayal
This massacre utterly destroyed the base that the Communists had built among the urban working class in China. Almost half of their membership in the cities were either killed or left the Communist Party in disgust. They had no choice but to turn to the peasantry in search of a revolutionary force. This is where the Maoist ideas about the revolutionary potential of the peasantry really come from, the necessity of fleeing the cities that was created by the totally horrible leadership of the CCP. 

### Turn towards the Peasantry
The CCP did retreat from the cities, finding a home among the peasants. Their reliance on the peasants forced their policies towards land redistribution to become more radical. While previously they tried to prevent the peasants from expropriating the landlords, now Mao realized they needed to be seen by the peasants as fighting for their interests. 

They continued to struggle against the forces of the KMT and the national capitalist class until the outbreak of [[WW2]], where there was a new oppurtunity.

### Intro to 1949
By 1949, the Japanese had invaded China. This further added wrinkles to the situation. The CCP under Mao again put faith in the KMT, still led by the man who ordered the massacre of Communists, as a progressive force. Mao counterposed the national bourgeoisie with the Japanese imperialists, saying that as long as the Japanese were around, the KMT could be used as a reliable ally against imperialism. 

### Halfway

### Peoples' War
After the end of the war and the defeat of Japan, accelerated by the help of the Soviet Union, the KMT and CCP once again faced off against one another in a civil war. But now, the CCP was firmly based in the peasantry, while the KMT had no real popular support to speak of. 

It was for this reason that the Communists were able to win. They controlled more and more of the rural areas of China, and began to approach the cities where the KMT had its last strongholds. 

### Entrance into the Cities
Trotsky said that the true nature of the Chinese Communist Party would be revealed when they entered the cities and greeted the workers there. He said that a genuine Communist vanguard would help organize the workers to take power, and try and instill class [[class consciousness]] in them as quickly as possible. This is because we know that only an organized working class can really form the basis for the development of socialism. The workers have a natural interest in cooperation, and have a natural interest in doing away with bourgeois property relations as well as national borders. 

The peasantry has no such natural interest. So far, Mao had ridden the wave of peasant support by expropriating the feudal landlords, which is a demand that would be right at home in a bourgeois revolution like the French or [[USA|American]] one. However, this was not a base of support that pushed the leadership towards socialism. They established no ways for the workers to have a voice in production, and actually supressed any independent movement of the working class. 

Mao had the vision of entering a period of capitalism at this point. He invited representatives of the Chinese capitalists to form a coalition government with him, but these people had all fled to Taiwan by now, and were far too weak to really be a force in politics at all - even when invited into power. 

When Mao saw that a movement towards a nationally-liberated capitalism was impossible, he embarked on a development similar to that of the Soviet Union, with similar results. 

### Bonapartism
China developed into a state of what Marxists call bonapartism. Bonapartism was named after the regime of Napoleon Bonaparte in France. Napoleon didn't rely on a single class to maintain power, he balanced between multiple. He pitted one class against another in order to maintain a fragile balance of class forces that allowed his state to stay in power, and have some ability to act independently of all the classes involved. 

China was entering a similar situation. The Chinese Communist Party was playing off the interests of the peasantry, the working class, and the petty bourgeoisie. The bureaucrats were mainly interested in protecting their newly won privledges, and developed a nationalistic, counter-revolutionary outlook like the bureaucracy in the USSR had done. 

### China Today
Despite the degenerated situation the Chinese state was in, the removal of capitalist property relations still allowed the economy to grow immensely, just like the economy of the Soviet Union did. I don't need to remind comrades of the incredible development of the Chinese economy between 1950 and today. The advantages of a [[economic planning|planned economy]] still exist, even when the economy is being planned undemocratically by a bureaucratic elite. Of course, these advantages would be dwarfed by the things a [[economic planning|planned economy]] could accomplish if it was run in the interest of the workers, by the working class. 

Marx and Engels said that capitalism creates its own gravediggers in the form of the working class. We can apply this saying to China today as well. Starting from a class composition dominated by the peasants, who make natural tools for bonapartism, China has now developed the strongest single national working class on Earth, of over 800 million people. 

One aspect of bonapartism is that the ruling clique must curb the excesses of the bourgeoisie, in order to save class society. This is why some Stalinists have ammunition in arguing that the Chinese Communist Party is quote un-quote overseeing the capitalists, and quote un-quote guiding their development. 

They can look to the imprisonment or even the execution of some billionaires, but we also have to look at the conduct of the CCP towards strikes that develop independently of the state-controlled trade unions. The general tactic is to agree to the strike's demands on paper, and then arrest the leaders of the strike after things have calmed down. In this way, the CCP attempts to maintain a handle on the increasing anger of the Chinese working class.

We can also see the movement of China towards the imperialist stage of development. Lenin said that the export of [[capital]] was the hallmark of imperialism, and China has certainly begun to do that. China has built infrastructure across the world as part of its Belt and Road project, seeking to challenge the domination of the  western system of imperialism. 

### Lessons for Today
Of course, I've skipped over whole chapters in this story, including how the relationship of Stalin and Mao deteriorated, the period in between 1925 and 1949, as well as the development of China from the 50s up until today. But just from the brief sketch that I've laid out, there are a lot of concrete lessons that we can take away from this story. 

From both the failures and the successes of both Chinese Revolutions, we can see that a policy of class independence is absolutely vital to the success of the movement. When the CCP attempted to lean on the Chinese capitalists, it ended in a massacre. And the CCP was only able to take power in 1949 due to the support they had in the peasantry. This support was able to get them into power, but was unable to act as a motor force to move China towards socialist development. This further confirms Lenin and Trotsky's perspective that the working class is the revolutionary leader of the peasantry. 

For us, we need to make sure that we realize the importance of class independence. The reliance of the CCP on the bourgeoisie was bad not only because of the inevitable betrayal, but also because of the confusing effect their alliance had on the working class in China. For the communists to say, "We need the help of the bourgeoisie to combat international capitalism, the working class can't do it alone," they decreased the faith that the workers had in their own power. In reality, the Chinese working class could have taken power in 1925 if it wasn't for the shameful policies carried out by the leadership, under the direction of Stalin and Mao.

We can also see another resounding confirmation of Trotsky's theory of permanent revolution. Despite the wishes of Stalin, Mao and the CCP, the national bourgeoisie was totally unable to play a progressive role. They were firmly bound to the system of imperialism that prevented China's progress, and therefore a bourgeois revolution like the ones we saw in Europe was totally impossible. And it wasn't for a lack of opportunities that the bourgeoisie failed to act. Mao and the CCP gave them chance after chance, but they proved totally incapable of liberating China from imperial domination. 

Finally, we can see that workers' democracy is not just a nice addition to a planned economy, or something that we do for moral reasons. While it's absolutely true that the workers deserve to have a say in the running of the economy, their participation is actually a vital, vital economic component to the running of a planned economy without market incentives. The free market is a very crude, inefficient, wasteful, and brutal mechanism for sure, but it does provide an essential service to capitalism. It's only through the wrecking of lives en masse through factory closures, bankruptcies, and the destruction of un-profitable firms that the capitalist economy can course correct and select the most profitable way to do things. A planned economy can avoid this immense suffering, but only if there is another mechanism to ensure that things are being done in an efficient, correct way. This mechanism comes in the form of workers democracy, and it was just this aspect that was missing in China after the revolution. Without this mechanism, the interests of the workers were largely ignored, and the interest of the bureaucracy were pursued. This meant rapid industrialization at the cost of huge suffering, in order to safeguard the bureaucracy against its rivals on the international stage. While the Chinese working class also has an interest in industrialization, under genuine workers democracy this would proceed much more smoothly and with more regard to the well-being of the average worker. 

As I said in my introduction, the China question is a big one on the left today. As genuine Marxists, we have to apply dialectical materialism to really understand China and where it's going. We have to look at the Chinese state as being at a stage in a process, rather than as a finished product. This means we can see that China is existing on a path somewhere between classical capitalism and a socialist society. We have to look at the direction China is going, and all the data show that it is headed, not towards socialism as the CCP and Stalinists would have you believe, but towards capitalism. We also have to apply the concept of the transformation of quantity into quality. As the sun sets, eventually day is transformed into night, and as China introduces more and more market reforms, this movement towards capitalism will eventually change China into a purely capitalist country, and likely already has. 

### Wrap Up
Excellent discussion comrades. I would like to wrap up by saying a bit about our quote unquote official stance towards China. Our stance towards China is that just after the revolution, the Chinese working class had one historical task - a political revolution, which meant the overthrow of the bureaucracy and seizure of the tools of the planned economy, to be put towards a genuine development towards socialism and international revolution. We applaud the creation of even an undemocratic planned economy, and this structure is what enabled China to escape its status as a colony of the European powers.

However, just as in the USSR, the bureaucracy had an interest in moving back towards capitalism, in order to cement the privledges that they had due to their control of the system.

Now, the Chinese workers have two tasks - the political revolution, and an economic one. The planned economy has been dismantled for the large part, and the Chinese working class must now re-establish it. 

Today, Maoists are a strong force in some places in the world, but not here in the [[USA]]. Here, anyone identifying as a Maoist is most likely a hardened ideologue that won't ever be convinced to change their minds. But we should put forward our nuanced, critical take on the leadership and support of the working class and revolutionary peasantry that really powered the Chinese revolution.

Some Stalinists defend the Chinese bureaucracy, saying that by criticizing China, we're siding with the United States. These people forget that Marxists don't side with one segment of the ruling class against another, but with the whole international working class in its struggle against all the sections of the bourgeoisie. When asked who we side with, China or the US, we should reply that we side with the American *working class* and the Chinese *working class.* These classes have the same interest in the long run, the overthrow of capitalism worldwide. This seems like a daunting task, and much harder to achieve than supporting the Chinese state, one of the most powerful tools of repression ever created. 

However, comrades, we should be optimistic about this. The Chinese working class is immensely powerful, and their power grows by the day, while the ability of the bureaucracy to manage an increasingly complex economy is decreasing. Eventually, capitalist crisis will cut through all the smoke and mirrors, red flags and slogans of the so-called Communist Party, and the workers will begin to move. And when that happens, no force in the world will be able to hold them back. The workers already have the strength, bravery, determination, and knowledge required to run society in their interests. They only thing needed is a guiding party that can understand and learn from the errors of the past, and that can win the trust of the workers.

Trotsky was right when he said the historical crisis of the current period was a crisis of the leadership of the proletariat. We need an understanding of the critical lesson of the Chinese Revolution, including the absolutley essential, crucial, vital need for class independence. That't the lesson we can apply to our current moment. The IMT firmly opposed supporting [[Biden]]. We opposed supporting Bernie if he was running within a bourgeois party. If we were invited into power in a coalition with liberals, we would refuse. 

And it's exactly that leadership we aim to develop in the IMT. We are in contact with comrades in China, who are working under conditions of secrecy, but they are working. And it's our task as Marxists in the United States, the belly of the beast of world imperialism, to do our best to hasten revolution here as well, so that we can move humanity onwards to the next phase of development.

## AOB
