# Branch, Wednesday, June 30, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
## News updates
- Financial Times predicts at least two US interest rate increases by end of 2023
	- Next period --> inflation
- Donald Rumsfeld has died
	- Secretary of defense during the [[Iraq]] war
- [[Biden]] support waning among [[Democratic Party]] voters
- [[Trump]] re-entering political spotlight

## Political discussion - [[IMT World Perspectives (2021)]]
- My comments
	- General trajectory towards revolutionary situation
	- Development of reaction to be expected
		- No working class parties
		- Swing btwn GOP and DNC in increasing intensity
	- Power of the working class unmatched
		- General strike
		- Worst case scenario is rightwing terrorist campaign
	- Need for a [[workers' party]]
	- Need for rev. leadership
	- Situation in [[Seattle]]
		- Vaccum on the left ([[identity politics]], [[opportunism]], [[reformism]])
			- [[Socialist Alternative]] will either defeat the recall and move on to their next thing, or will lose Kshama and absolutely implode
		- Political tension everywhere
			- First they ignore you, then they fight you, then you win
				- Relation to Kshama recall camapign
		- Eviction moratorium can't last forever
		- Student work has big possibilities as well
- JC questions
	- Objective factors in [[class consciousness]] dev.
	- Why do the [[bourgeoisie]] compete with one another
	- What patterns are emerging around the world. 
	- Consequences of [[GDP]] decline. 
- JM comments
	- Need for unapologetic leadership
	- [[GDP]] decline indicative of impossibility of expansion for [[capitalism]]. 

## Branch task round-up
- My comments
	- Emails
	- Contact work
	- Tabling
	- Finance of course
	- Branch secretary stuff
	- Reading group
	- MWR forum
- JC questions
	- What to send to contacts
	- Intro to MWR forum
- JM comments
	- MWR forum is less important than reading group for our participation
	- Low priority thing: email system

## Assign tasks to members
- My comments
	- I can continue with finance and contacts distribution
	- JM continues with branch secretary stuff
	- Ask JC if he can do press? Talk to JM first. 

## Plan for tabling
- My comments
	- Experiment with location, time
	- Keep it simple. Cap Hill seems to be working
	- *Marx Was Right* forum
	- Not ready for a public event imo
	- Tabling supplies
		- Bungee cords, tape

## Ordering magazines
- My comments
	- Current stock --> 11 before tabling on [[2021-06-30]]
	- At the average tabling session, we sell 8.5 papers (n=2). After today, this has updated to 6 (n=3)
	- If we table twice a month, that means we need two bundles a month. 
	- If every week, then need a little more than 3 bundles monthly.

## AOB
- Social media account
- Migrating to Box
- Chris Crane is an IMT member living in Tacoma! 