# Branch, Saturday, March 12, 2022
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-03-12]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- Facebook changes policies on calls for violence to allow targeting of Russian soldiers.
- Inflation at 8%, highest since 1982. This will only be exacerbated by the war in Europe impacting supply chains and oil prices. 
- Alabama voting on a bill to criminalize all HRT for those 18 and under - represents a last ditch attempt to create some kind of culture-war constituency in the face of social unrest. 
- Multiple states passing bills restricting the attitude teachers can take towards [[socialism]] and [[Marxism]] - represents fear of these ideas become more popular. 
- 81 people executed in [[Saudi Arabia]], some tied to [[Yemen|Yemeni]] rebels. Goes to show the depraved nature of the regime there.
- Sanctions in [[Russia]] causing the evacuation of foreign [[capital]] to be replaced with national investment. 
- New elections in [[South Korea]] - both parties unpopular, conservative party wins by a close margin. 

# ☭ Mini-leadoffs on SR31
- FT's leadoff on the [[Ukraine]] editorial
	- Wheat prices are going to be hit hard because of the war
	- Reflection of a shift towards geopolitical multipolarity
- My leadoff on *FAQ: Marxism, Bolshevism, and Mutual Aid*
	- History of mutual aid
		- [[Peter Kropotkin]] (never said [[mutual aid]] was a rev strat)
	- Definition
		- Mutual aid projects work to meet survival needs, educate people about why scarcity exists, mobilize people, expand solidarity and build movements, solve problems through collective self-activity
		- Two species of mutual aid project: one as organic phenomenon, other as rev strat
	- Positive aspects
		- Reflects the mobilization of the working class and the shaking-off of apathy
	- Limitations
		- Not effective as a rev strategy
		- Does not build "dual power"
		- Ineffective in changing consciousness: [[Consciousness changes on the basis of events]] that are much larger than these kinds of interactions
	- Marxist attitude towards mutual aid

# 📥 Finances update
- The importance of finances 
	- Local (meeting spaces, pol materials, etc)
	- National (full-timers, running the paper and website, Congresses, etc)
	- International (international aid to our sections, IEC funding, etc)
- The state of the finances 
	- Current balance: $750
	- Current dues income: $260 monthly (this goes to national)
	- Current expenses: $60 weekly for the meeting space
	- Papers cost us $1.75 each and we sell it for $2, therefore we will have to have a fundraiser if we continue having to pay for meeting space. 
- The future of our finances 
	- Paying for the meeting space is racking up costs, at this rate we will run out of cash in six weeks.

# AOB
- Brief overview of contacts procedure
	- 24hr, 48hr, 72hr follow-up
	- [[Why We are Marxists (2017)]] is a great starting point
	- "Patient explanation"
- Planning branch social
	- At a comrade's house, bowling, other ideas?

# Next meeting 
- Political topic:
- Organizational topic: