# WRC, Tuesday April 5
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-04-05]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
# ☭ Leadoff on [[Will there be a slump? (1960)]]
- Overview
	- Why should we care about [[What is Marxist economic theory?|Marxist econ]]?
	- Was the postwar era a qualitiative change in [[capitalism]]?
	- Can state intervention end crisis?
	- What is the outlook of world capitalism today?
- Why should we care about Marxist econ?
	- Difference between utopian and scientific thinking
	- Need for materialist analysis
	- "Politics is concentrated economics" - [[Lenin]]
- Was the postwar era a qualitiative change in capitalism?
	- In a word: no
	- All the main laws of capitalism held true: the rate of profit was still tending towards decline, surplus value was still being extracted from labor, etc.
	- The main factors for the resurgence of capitalism were the political failures of the proletarian leadership - the [[Stalinism|Stalinists]] and social democrats and labor leaders, combined with increased [[capital]] investment globally 
		- Capital investment enabled by: rebuild Europe, the weakening of imperialism globally - spurred greater investment in under-developed regions
	- Discuss failure of the non-Marxist left to understand economic cycles: from Third Period to despair -- missing the guiding compass of [[dialectical materialism]]. 
 - Can state intervention end crisis?
	- [[The state cannot avert capitalist crisis]]
	- Sources of funding: the capitalists, the workers, or printing currency
	- [[Nationalization isn't inherently socialist]]: the [[UK]] pursued a plan of bourgeois [[economic planning|nationalization]] of failing industries, using state investment to modernize and re-privatize them. 
	- [[Marxists seek to increase the clarity and confidence of the workers]], not beg the bourgeois state for handouts or partial nationalization. Only when the workers demand nationalization should we support that demand, and we must push for workers' control over nationalized industries. 
- What is the outlook of world capitalism today?
	- The state has chosen the route of currency printing to pay for its spending. 
	- The annual inflation rate is nearing 8%, the highest rate since 1982. Some of this is due to increased energy costs related to the war in [[Ukraine]], but we cannot overlook the nearly 9 trillion dollars in "quantitative easing" that have been pumped into the financial markets since 2008, largely in the last two years alone. The only reason inflation hasn't spiked massively because of this is that the quantitative easing has been limited to financial products, and largely hasn't made its way into the rest of the economy, as far as I understand it.
	- [[Capitalism has no final crisis]] - it will never die on its own. It will engage in endless layoffs, factory closures, and bankruptcies, but will not die unless the working class takes power into its own hands and puts a stop to the crisis once and for all. 

# Political discussion
- River (BAY)
	- The destruction of markets also laid the basis for economic resurgence, and [[WW2]] brought the [[USA|American]] economy out of the Great Depression. Today, the economy is still struggling to recover from the 2008 crisis. It's our perspective today that another world war is unlikely. How *could* capitalism recover from this situation where capitalism is unable to progress?
- Evan M (LA)
	- The capitalist class embraced state defense of capitalism after WW2. In [[Mexico]], the president set up a public bank, carried out land reform, and generally stabilized capitalism. At this time, around 40% of state budget went towards investment in industry. This created a strong Mexican [[proletariat]]. 
- Evan H (PDX)
	- There will always be a boom-bust cycle, but the booms will benefit the working class less and less as capitalism becomes even less progressive than it was in the previous century.
- Erica L
	- State intervention can actually exacerbate the contradictions of capitalism. When interest rates are increased, this accelerates how [[Economic crisis accelerates concentration of capital]].
- Josh (PHX)
	- Even major state interventions such as Medicare For All would sharpen the contradictions if the whole healthcare industry were not nationalized, and if this nationalization wasn't under workers' control. There's always a way for capitalism to recover, and they could expand beyond Earth! 
- Evan M (LA)
	- The space mining projects are more of a bread-and-circuses thing than a genuine proposal.
- Erica L (PHX)
	- She agrees with Evan that it's unlikely as far as she's seen in her work (she works for a space company). Does full unemployment under capitalism cause inflation?
- Nick B (PHX)
	- The rocket programs and the arms industry are generally ficticious capital. While WW2 erased all the overproduction, arms production is not 'productive' and while necessary for maintaining capitalism, it's still ficticious in that way. It isn't profitable. As for the ways that capitalism could escape this crisis, we should see [[Sri Lanka]]. They will eventually have to default on their international debt. Inflation will continue to rise until debts can be repaid, and the vast majority of the poorest people will suffer. This will play out in the arena of grain: eventually a lot of this grain will be squandered, as a result of the war and the inflationary pressures. This will kill millions, while destroying the overproduction in the food market. 
- Jon D
	- Bourgeois nationalization and reprivatization is clearly reactionary. That means holding on to nationalization where it exists is a good thing. The example of NASA is different because it hasn't been privatized. 
- Erica L (PHX)
	- Question about arms industry: if a factory makes arms, those products are destroyed and don't result in more income. However, some accidental innovations come about through the arms industry and the military research programs. 
- Jake T (Chico)
	- The R&D functions of the military have become an increasingly important avenue to arrive at technological advances. This represents a form of planning that is warped to the benefit of the capitalists. 
- Josh (PHX)
	- Capitalism has no final crisis, we must end it. 
- Jon D
	- Space mining may have a positive effect during an upswing, but during a slump the addition of a massive amount of rare minerals would have a massively negative effect.
- Nick B (PHX)
	- Monetary policy is reactive to the economy, not a guiding force. We see how the Fed has been forced to raise interest rates for the first time in a decade. This will exacerbate the crisis, but they have no real choice if they want to tamp down inflation. 

# My sum up
- The capitalists use the state for R&D generally, in all fields including the space program. They aren't interested in privatizing these functions due to the risks inherent in experimentation. Furthermore, NASA contracts were and still are very lucrative for aerospace industry capitalists. 
- We should compare capitalism with the degenerated [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]] of the [[Russia|USSR]]. 

# The IEC resolution on growth
- Nick B's leadoff
	- This resolution combines a sense of urgency with a sense of proportion. 
	- Good conditions don't automatically lead to growth - we have to make growth a conscious priority. All comrades should be contact-conscious. Whenever we're conducting political work, we should be aiming to connect with the advanced layer present who may want to engage with our ideas and join us.
	- All branches should create a plan to develop quality cadres on campuses in the fall. 
	- The PHL student club went from three student cadres to having an initial meeting of hundreds out of which they could recruit. 
- River's intervention
	- We have time to prepare, but not infinite time. The Bay branch has been organizing an event at UC Berkely. They're preparing for an influx of contacts
- Josh's intervention
	- Students and the youth aren't stupid, we need to treat them as people with lots of experience and a growing political consciousness

# 📥 Systematizing contact work and consolidation in PHX (see [[PHX consolidation writeup]])
- The PHX comrades are using a minutes system during one-on-one consolidation meetings for a month now. Not all the comrades have been sticking to it, but the BC is ensuring compliance.
- Comrades must be consistently reminded to pursue contact work. 
- Comrades must be given a time and place to discuss their problems and questions
- This template gives a time to provide feedback, and functions as a two-way tool: meetings become more efficient, and allows the BC to stay in the loop on contact work. lo=
- How can we ensure "ownership" of this minutes-taking process?
	- Ultimately we have to trust the consolidators to keep to this schedule, this requires buy-in from the comrades. 
- How can 'politically immature' comrades be brought into leadership as fast as possible?
- What should the leadership focus their energy on: consolidating the newest members or working to transform the near-cadre into full cadre? 

# Western region slack
- There used to be a slack, but it got closed down. Now we want to re-open it so that we can all communicate. Sharing information is encouraged. 
# AOB
- River: the BAY branch is getting ready to organize the West Coast Marxist School somewhere in the bay area. It will occur during the first week of November. 

# Next meeting
June 7
Reading: *The colonial revolution and the deformed [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' states]]* by [[Ted Grant]]. 

# AOB
- 

# Next meeting 
- Political topic:
- Organizational topic: