# [[IMT]] Branch, 6-6-20
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## Political discussion - [[June 2020 uprising]]
I think that this recent wave of protests highlights a few important things. For one, there is a massive amount of rage lying under the surface in the United States. People were shocked at the intensity of the Ferguson uprising in 2014, and now we see similar events happening in nearly every American city. I think this ties in well with [[People & Organizations/Trotsky]]’s idea of the molecular process of revolution. Invisible to most bourgeois analysts, a level of general resentment, and resentment among people of color in particular, has been building. They’re shocked by the intensity because they don’t understand the processes at work under the surface. And I think these processes include more than police brutality and racial oppression. I don't think it's unimportant that these events are happening during the current economic collapse and pandemic. There is a generalized feeling of anger that has grown a lot recently, and the killing of George Floyd was just the spark. It’s unfortunately true that this anger will dissipate, just like after Ferguson, without anything changing on a structural level, without being directed and channeled by an organization. Without a party for the working class, which Black Americans are a huge part of, even the mild gains that we’ve seen so far won’t last. 

## Organizational Point - IMT Best Practices Point
-   Fundamentals of chairing
	-   It makes sense for our branch to rotate this role. 
	-   #1 priority is that this is a political position! The chair determines when to wrap up, and keeps the meeting timely. Make sure to time the points and stay on schedule. Make sure to have the previous minutes available as well as the agenda. Make sure to have points available to break the ice in the discussion and get the ball rolling. Showing up early is good. 
-   Fundamentals of taking minutes
	-   Record initials of interventions. Show up early IRL. Note all decisions that were made, as well as who attends the meetings, who is late, etc. 
-   Sending apologies is important, as well as justifications for this. We need to keep each other accountable as members of a serious revolutionary organization. 
-   Fundamentals of leadoffs
	-   It’s always ok to ask for help with a leadoff. 
	-   We use this structure in order to raise the discussion to as high a level as possible, and to fast-forward to the details of the real core of the issue. 
	-   Having a well prepared leadoff is better for the person delivering it, as well as for the group overall.     
	-   Giving a leadoff is also a valuable experience in public speaking for members. 
    
## BC Elections
Jesse as Branch Secretary
Ryan as Finance Officer
Drew as Press Officer