# [[IMT]] Branch, August 1st, 2020
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
[[Trump]] tweeted a desire to suspend the election. This sent shock waves through the liberal world, but we should be careful not to exaggerate the possibility of a [[Trump]] dictatorship. As Marxists, we need to look past the individuals in power and look at the social forces and class relationships that are giving those people their authority. If [[Trump]] had the united backing of the ruling class or the military, we would need to seriously consider the possibility of a coup. However, that isn’t really the case today. The military won’t be willing to stick out their necks and back a [[Trump]]-led coup attempt while they would still do well under [[Biden]], who would be more predictable than [[Trump]] and doesn't challenge the ruling class agenda. 

## Political Discussion on the World School
I listened to the talk on Marxist economics. I chose this one to listen to because I think that I would benefit from more education on the concrete economics of [[Marxism]]. Overall, it was a really interesting talk led by [[Rob Sewell]], from the British section. He started off by talking about bourgeois economic theory. Mainstream economics has repeatedly talked about how we have finally solved the problems of [[capitalism]]. Obviously, this isn’t true, but bourgeois economists always seem to be swept up in each upswing of capitalism, and claim that this time it'll be permanent and everything will be great. As a result of this, they are always shocked by each downturn. In both 2008 and just recently, economists were amazed by how badly the economy did. 

As opposed to bourgeois economists, we have a clear idea of how the economy works. I’m certainly no expert in this, but here’s my understanding of what Rob was talking about. We have to start with the [[labor theory of value]]. This theory says that [[labor]] is the source of increasing [[value]] in the economy. Bourgeois economists say that labor is just one of the factors of production, along with [[capital]], land, and so on. However, even if you have a factory, and you have a lot of land, and a lot of [[capital]] to invest in the production of something, without workers you won’t have created anything. This theory is a lot more complex, and there is a lot more to talk about, but that could be a whole conversation of its own, so I’ll leave it at that. 

Capitalists employ workers to produce products for them, and they gain [[surplus value]] from the workers by paying them less than the value that the workers produce. Some liberals say that ‘compassionate capitalism’ is possible and we can end exploitation by regulating workplaces, but this simple law of economics proves this false. Even the most fair and nice capitalist has no choice but to exploit their workers by stealing their [[surplus value]]. Otherwise, there would be no [[currency|money]] to invest in the upkeep of the factory, or to expand production in any way. Again, these concepts have whole books written about them, so I’ll try and keep it brief. 

Rob went on to talk about what crisis really is in capitalism. The classic crisis is the crisis of overproduction. Since each individual capitalist isn't working off any kind of plan, they really have no idea how much of any single commodity to produce. They will just keep selling more and more of their [[commodities]], reinvesting the [[surplus value]] in more production. When there isn’t any more demand for their commodities, a crisis begins. This crisis will only end when enough factories close, and enough workers are laid off to reduce production of the commodity in question back into equilibrium with the demand that exists for the product. While this is usually referred to as a simple contraction by mainstream economists, it ruins the lives and erases the wealth of millions of workers each time it happens. 

There’s so much more to go into, and I strongly recommend that comrades check this one out on YouTube, because Marxist economic theory is really crucial for understanding why the economy is doing the things that it’s doing literally right now, and it’s so important for understanding why simple reforms won’t be able to get rid of exploitation and create a just society.
