# [[IMT]] Branch, 5-9-20
`TAGS:` #meeting/political

---
# News updates
Topics included coup attempt in [[Venezuela]], climate change, NYT coverage of rent strikes, UN requests meager sum for international [[COVID-19]] aid.

# Political discussion on “Will There Be A Slump?” by Ted Grant
The immediate perspective of the post war economy in the first world was a rise in production, and concessions to the workers. This created a material basis for [[reformism]], [[opportunism]], and bureaucratism in the workers’ movement and in the [[unions]]. People saw that they could gain favors by making backroom deals with the [[bourgeoisie]]. 

Events in the first world made some leftists discard the working class of the first world overall. Third-worldists said that there was no longer any revolutionary potential in the first world, and we ought to focus our support on third-world revolutionary groups.

Increases in technical development increases the productivity of industry, but also increases the barrier to entry to new firms into the market if the new firm wants to be able to compete. 

As the proportion of investment in constant [[capital]] increases in relation to investment in variable [[capital]] (wages), the rate of profit must decline. Why is this? This is because wages are where profit comes from. As more and more is going to constant [[capital]], that means less and less return is coming from your investment.  

The basic postulate is that the [[surplus value]] of the workers is appropriated by the capitalist, and is reinvested in the economy. This reinvestment must fall into one of two categories. Category one is reinvestment in the expansion of the [[means of production]], while the other category is reinvestment in the expansion of the means of consumption. The vast majority of this [[surplus value]] is reinvested.     

It is competition among the capitalists in the expansion of production and the maximization of efficiency that causes the rate of profit to fall.     

[[People & Organizations/Trotsky]] predicted that there could be another boom in capitalism if the workers didn't take the road to revolution.     

There were multiple factors in the development of the postwar economy. First and foremost was the political failure of the [[Stalinism|Stalinists]] and SocDems, creating the political climate for capitalist recovery. 

Wartime destruction of [[capital]] created large new markets. There were lots of profitable opportunities to rebuild an entire continent’s worth of industry, stimulated even further by the Marshall Plan. This was accelerated by the growth of new industries, including artificial stimulation by war preparation and armaments. 

As long as [[capitalism]] produces growth, it has a historical role to play. Even though [[socialism]] would be more progressive at this point, capitalism relies on its growth to justify its existence.     

The state’s role in the economy was increasing. [[state]] acts to the benefit of large firms, while actually hurting smaller ones through the raising of interest rates and the giving of favorable contracts. While state spending had decreased unemployment, it had also increased inflation.     

In the [[UK]], the state took more of a creative role than in the [[USA]]. By nationalizing many unprofitable industries, such as steel production, railways, etc (nearly 20% of the economy!), the state was able to modernize them to make them productive again. Then, the Tories privatized them again.    
As production has increased, the share of the spoils going to the working class has actually fallen.     

The state cannot repair the problems of capitalism, because the only tool the state has for investment must come in the form of taxes. These taxes are either taken from the capitalist, decreasing even further the rate of profit and therefore investment, or from the working class, decreasing the market for consumption.     

Keynesian solutions are also unsound. By deficit spending, the state invariably increases inflation, contributing to the above problems. 

In the undeveloped world, the absolute standard of living is actually falling due to increases in population.

We need to absorb the methods of [[Marx]], [[Lenin]], and Trotsky, not their opinions or outlook. This will allow us to adapt to new conditions.

For our current conditions, after COVID we will either enter a period of severe austerity, or a period of inflationary crisis in order to make up for the trillions in debt taken on by the state.

Planned interventions

In response to [[Jacob]], the Marshall Plan was implemented to undercut the appeal of left parties in Europe, as well as ensure an export market for US goods. There were mandates that a certain portion of the [[currency|money]] be spent on US goods, I believe. It was also certainly an effort to make sure that Western Europe was ready to stand against the [[Russia|USSR]] and its allies. 

I think one thing that this article doesn’t address is [[Keynesianism]], it only talks about half the idea of Keynesian economics. The idea, the way I understand it, is that the state will use tax revenue to pay down the deficit during booms, so that the deficit can be expanded under bust conditions. I think that it’s questionable whether the math really works out here, but I was surprised that the article didn’t really go in depth on this. 

I think this article is great, and provides a great overview of basic Marxist economics. Something that really refreshes me is how Marxism totally avoids the common rightwing arguments against so-called leftism, and in fact Marxists understand the inability of the state to spend its way out of crisis, and the parasitic way the state affects the economy, more deeply than the right actually does. The only way out really is socialism. 
    
# Organizational Point - IEC Resolution
BG proposed looking into a public meeting in the near future, establishing more focus on 
social media work,  considering events to bolster branch finances, and reconnecting with old contacts. BG also mentioned the possibility of establishing a study session over Zoom for comrades to socialize and read in preparation for the branch / reading group. CE and DM showed seconded this. 

This resolution’s theme is urgency. We need to stay proactive to make sure that we stay strong, yet flexible in the face of pandemic restrictions. 
    
We are headed into a period of austerity after this crisis “ends.” Millions will be politicized by this, and we need to be ready to come out of the gate fast, and reach as many as people as possible. Our present forces are not consolidated enough for the tasks ahead, and we need to build our organization as quickly and strongly as possible. 
    
If something besides [[COVID-19]] had triggered this crisis, we would be seeing unrest and strike waves already. 
    
You can’t improvise leadership or organization in the spur of the moment. We were ready for the shift to online, now we need to be ready for the shift back to open work and mobilization. 
    
Comrades have more free time than usual, and should catch up on reading. The wealth of Marxist literature is truly bottomless. Comrades should also think of what spending they have reduced, and consider donating to the organization. 
    
# AOB
Reading groups continuing at 7pm Tuesday and Friday on Imperialism and the Transitional Program, respectively. 
    
Livestream at 4pm tonight from SF comrades about why socialists shouldn’t run as democrats. 
    
Next branch on Saturday, 5/16 at 1 pm with a leadoff from BG on Marxism and materialism.