# [[IMT]] Branch 3-26-21
`LINKS:`
`TAGS:` #meeting/political

---
Questions for discussion: “Is there a more materialy-based method to reduce the chances that a party will be derailed, either in an ultra-left or [[reformism|reformist]] direction? To require an iron-willed leadership seems unrealistic. How can we set up party structures in order to armor ourselves?” 

Answer from JM: This shows the need for consolidation. We need to be serious about theory and our [[cadre]] foundation. This will both help us expand and help us stave off mistakes. We need to be ready once these questions arise in order to guide the party in the correct direction. 

Answer from JW: We need to develop a strong membership, without any cracks or holes in theoretical understanding. Every rank and file member needs to have an active understanding of theory and practice of [[Marxism]]. 

The leadoff today is about the history of the [[IMT]]. The IMT used to be part of a larger [[UK]]-centered organization called [[Militant]]. Militant split over matters of involvement in the [[Labour Party (UK)]]. 

After the 4th International and the death of [[Trotsky]], a lot of people failed to internalize Marxist methodology, instead seizing upon the static ideas of [[Marx]], [[Lenin]], and others who foresaw an upcoming world revolution. Some thought that there would be another economic collapse in the era following [[WW2]], while others saw that there would be an upswing in [[capitalism]].

The question of growth is essential. On one hand, we want to grow as fast as possible, but we must also maintain a principled basis in our growth. We cannot allow the floodgates to open to those without a theoretical base of understanding. In our current period, we need to focus on reading and theory, in order to train our members. In the future, we will be able to incorporate members more quickly as the skeleton of the IMT is firm.