# Branch, Saturday, July 31, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
# News updates
- Protests in [[Tunisia]] as the president suspends parliament
	- Demonstrates that revolutions either have to complete the transition of power into the hands of the [[proletariat]], or will inevitably backslide into the same old games.
- Bernie interviewed about [[Biden]], defends him and [[Democratic Party]] leaders for failing to follow through on promises
	- Demonstrates that Sanders has totally squandered all the energy from his movement, is no longer a viable leader, even of a [[reformism|reformist]] current. 

# Political discussion: mini leadoffs on SR
- My points
	- Env destruction would be bad enough if that was the only issue with capitalism...
	- Only way forward is long-term rational planning, not individualism
	- Capitalism can only provide sustainability as a luxury good
- My leadoff
	- Intro
		- Reply to questions posed by [[DSA]] members about a previous article
	- Q: The IMT argues for a class-independent mass socialist party. What kind of party would this be? How do you define a "party"?
		- [[Marx]] and [[Engels]] were flexible, but argued for [[class independence]]
		- Movement building is [[dialectics|dialectical]] and iterative
		- The only thing that truly matters is class independence, other matters can be worked through
	- Q: Does this mean we should support [[reformism|reformist]] social-democratic and labor parties?
		- Communists should be wherever workers are found
		- [[mass organizations]] and [[workers' party]] leadership = past consciousness
		- Rev current + radicalizing events --> more influence
	- Q: How should a mass party operate within the context of capitalism? Should it pursue electoral victories and try to pass reforms?
		- We seek election / reform to further class struggle
		- 57% turnout in 2020 election --> some workers still have faith in electoral system
		- We need transitional demands that mobilize workers and give them confidence
		- Totally different from political goals of [[bourgeoisie]]. 
	- Q: Would it have been possible for a mass socialist party to emerge in advance of the mass movements like the 2020 BLM uprising?
		- Yes if foundation had been laid
		- Previous failure due to lack of a class-struggle program
	- Q: Do you believe revolutionary change is possible in our lifetime?
		- 39 million in [[USA]] have favorable opinion of [[Marxism]]
		- Many revolutions, uprisings, strikes around the world
		- [US opinion polls](https://news.gallup.com/opinion/polling-matters/287459/public-opinion-review-americans-word-socialism.aspx)
			- 49% of millenials and zoomers have positive view of [[socialism]]
			- 65% of [[Democratic Party]] voters have positive view
			- Incredibly confused definition of socialism - 38% say [[USA]] is a socialist country today

# Planning of future aggregates
- My comments
	- Need for a rebalancing of the SEA work. 
	- Need to prioritize in-person meetings for BHAM
	- Ok to let the different branches have independent lives
	- Resources in vs resources out
	- Shared public meetings and tabling sessions as a way to stay in touch
	- If we abandon agg...
		- Ryan now on BDC
		- More time for local work
		- We should consider how to keep in contact (AC?)
	- If we keep agg...
		- Need for BHAM to organize it and plan leadoffs
- DM's comments
	- Could go either way
- In favor of retaining aggregate
- CC's comments
	- Prefers zoom over in person, but sees the value of the latter
- JC's comments
	- Would be more flexible if virtual, and in public
- KM's comments
	- Likes the idea of engaging with public events rather than branch. 
- DG's comments
	- Agrees with the importance of in-person meetings over the aggregate
- Missing TM, CE, JM

# [[2021 IMT World Congress]] report
- My points
	- Demonstration of organizational health
	- Grounds our local perspective in a global context