# [[IMT]] Branch, 3-6-21
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- Most [[Egypt|Egyptians]] will have to pay more than a week's wages for a COVID vaccine, as [[Italy]] blocked the export of 250,000 doses of the vaccine, claiming that they faced internal shortages and [[Indonesia]] is distributing the vaccine by selling in bulk to large corporations who will give them to their employees instead of providing them for the people. This shows the fundamental inability of a series of mutually-hostile capitalist ruling classes and their politicians to handle the threat of a global pandemic, something that could be solved relatively easily under a globally planned economy. It's just a matter of reorganizing production around the vaccine, and then distributing it. All of which we have the technology to do. Even [[China]]'s bureaucratic and undemocratic approach worked so much better than what we're doing. 
- The COVID stimulus package has passed the Senate. It's an example of too little too late. The so-called "huge" price tag is roughly the same as the failed F-19 program, demonstrating the true priorities of the US state.
- The [[IMT]] has become more involved in [[unions|union]] work. This is a difficult path, since the working class is very heterogenous, with reactionary and progressive elements found together everywhere you look. 
- Protests in [[Haiti]] have exploded after the president refused to leave power. These protests have been happening on and off for the past few years, due to multiple intersecting causes. 

## Marxist FAQ "hot seat"
- What is [[Trotskyism]]?
	- Me: We're just Marxists, and since we take the ideas of [[Marxism]] seriously, we also study thinkers like [[Lenin]], and yes [[Trotsky]], who was a genuine Marxist theorist who gave use good tools. 
	- Krissy: Trotsky gives us a guide to how we can connect the [[class consciousness]] of the working class today with a more broad revolutionary conclusion.
	- Jesse: 'Trotskyism' as a label was invented by [[Stalinism]] in order to isolate Trotsky from the ideas of Lenin and Marx. But we do follow Trotsky since he had good ideas, just like Lenin and Marx. 
	- Jake: Fun fact - Lenin was the first to be called a Trotskyist by the right opposition in [[Bolsheviks]]. 
- What does '[[permanent revolution]]' mean?
	- Jake: Capitalism develops the world at different speeds and at different levels in different parts of the world. Even in an undeveloped country, the working class can still play a progressive role and move past capitalism. The [[proletariat]] can still complete the democratic tasks of a [[bourgeoisie|bourgeois]] revolution. 
	- Claire: The idea is basically to have [[class independence]]. The working class is the only truly revolutionary class. 
- What is 'workers democracy?'
	- Vyom: Capitalism is totally incompatable with democracy. How can somebody struggling to survive have time for abstract political questions? It's only when people have their basic needs secured that they can engage in their communities and make change. 
	- Jesse: In the degenerated state we saw in the [[Russia|USSR]], we saw the advantages of a planned economy, but not the advantages of worker participation in decision making. In order to produce for need instead of profit, robust imput and democratic control is essential. This is what was lacking in the USSR. 
- What about human nature?
	- Krissy: Marxists understand history through the lens of [[dialectical materialism]]. That means we recognize that ideas, like 'human nature,' develop under the influence of the material world. Under capitalism, the struggle to survive molds human nature into an agressive and bloodthirsty shape.
	- Adelaide: If human nature was truly cutthroat since the dawn of time, humanity would have gone extinct long ago. We can credit every achievement to the ways that humans *work together*, not the ways that we compete with each other. 
	- [[Jacob]]: Selfishness and greed is a normal part of life under capitalism. But even under capitalism we see a tremendous amount of altruism and goodwill all around us. Humans are complicated. Depending on our context, we can be selfish or really selfless. We're fighting for socialism because it's capitalism that brings out all the worst elements of our natures. Socialism will instead bring out all the good things that we know humanity can bring to the table. 
- What's the difference between [[socialism]] and [[communism]]?
	- Drew: Socialism is the stepping stone towards communism. But while [[state]] still exists under socialism, it looks very different from a capitalist state. The role of the state under socialism is to set up society in a way that the state can begin to wither away. At the point where society has no further need for a state, we would say that we've reached communism. 
- The IMT calls for a revolutionary party. What does this mean?
	- [[Jacob]]: The masses have all of the intelligence, ability, and courage to push forward towards revolution. However, they don't necessarily have the knowledge to succeed in their efforts. That's what the IMT aims to build, a historical memory of the working class. We build on the lessons learned from past attempts at revolution in order to avoid pitfalls and errors that have been made in the past. The revolutionary party also helps to knit together pockets of revolutionary potential. 
	- Vyom: We understand the state as the organ of the ruling class. The violent institutions through which the ruling class exerts its rule. We have to directly challenge the bourgeoisie and establish the working class as the new ruling class in control of a new state. The revolutionary party is the vehicle through which this work can be directed.
- What is [[dialectical materialism]]?
	- Ryan: Dialectical materialism sounds intimidating, but it fundamentally has two parts. [[materialism]] refers to our belief that the material world is real, and is the basis of the universe. Ideas are not primary, and are shaped by the real material world. The other half is *[[dialectics]]*. It's the process through which things change in our world. It's a large topic, but a lot of things have a dialectical relationship. It's intuitive once you get an understanding of it. 
	- Jacob: Being determines [[class consciousness]]. The fact that you have to live a certain way determines the way that you think about things in general. That's the idea of materialism. But we don't want to take this too far. We also understand that there are contradictions within everything. We have to be *dialectical* about the relationship between every factor that is influencing everything else. 
	- Jake: Marxism and dialectical materialism are *inseperable*. The latter is the philosophy of Marxism and is totally central to the way Marxism is applied to history, economics, and politics. However, dialectical materialism doesn't try and create a closed system of the universe. It's just a method of understanding the world that we can use. 

## Discussion on Vyom's Slack Proposal 
- My intervention 
	- I have a few points here but I'm going to do my best to keep each short because I really want to hear everyone's perspective on this point and I want to feel like this is a discussion we're all having as a branch. The question of who we're reading is really critical and I think we should all take it seriously. 
	- I think that it's understandable to want to read thinkers that seem more relevant to the current situation, but I want to emphasize the reasons that we focus so heavily on [[Marx]], [[Engels]], [[Lenin]], and [[Trotsky]] in the IMT. The purpose of the [[IMT]] at this stage is to train Marxist [[cadre]]. That means we need to absorb the *method* of Marxism, so that we can apply it to any issue, not just the ones that Lenin and others applied it to. And I have more to say on the topic, but I want to go around and hear from everyone. 
	- Another reason that we should stay on track when it comes to the foundational ideas of Marxism is that a lot of these newer thinkers are either putting forward ideas that Marxists have already tackled, or they're drawing on Marx and Lenin to make claims about what those thinkers believed. If we haven't read those thinkers ourselves, we're really just trusting that these newer thinkers are interpreting Marxism correctly. It's more intellectually honest for us to read the primary thinkers and then we can make up our own mind about the more recent interpretations of those ideas because frankly there's a *lot* of bullshit out there when it comes to people interpreting these thinkers. But once we absorb the *method* of Marxism, we can actually use that method to see more clearly, and we don't just have to take peoples' word for why a specific position is a good or bad idea. 
	- As for the racial aspect of these thinkers, I think we run the risk of tokenizing people when we choose to emphasize thinkers just because of their race or ethnicity. We should approach thinkers on the basis of their ideas, and I think to elevate or supress thinkers based on their identity is to embrace the worst aspects of [[identity politics]]. We don't need to be anxious about the fact that many of the thinkers we engage with would be viewed as "white" in a modern [[USA|American]] context. If the ideas of these thinkers are truly revolutionary, and will truly lead to the liberation of humanity, then we should study them regardless of the identities of these thinkers. If they aren't leading towards the liberation of the working class, which includes the vast vast majority of all people of color, we should abandon them, regardless of the identities of the thinkers. 
	- I think the feeling of a lack of involvement is totally understandable. We aren't doing any of the public work that we normally do, partially because of [[COVID-19]], but also because of how busy we all are. We have to maintain a sense of proportion here. Focusing on [[Seattle]], I'm in class all day, so is Jacob, and Vyom is in medical school, while Aadil and Jeff are busy at work. We have to be very specific about what our priorities are. If we had more people, we would be tabling every week, we could be organizing public meetings, walking picket lines, and attending protests. But the fact is, who's going to be the one to do that? I think that after [[COVID-19]], and after we start getting out there again, feelings of isolation will likely fade away as we reconnect with the people. 
	- I strongly agree with you Aadil that we should have full political discussions and leadoffs on international struggles. I think that is a great idea. We should use branch to apply Marxist analysis to current events and historical movements, for sure. I didn't want to imply you were tokenizing or doing anything like that. I just think that there's a distinction between studying history and applying a Marxist analysis to things, and using the resources of the IMT to teach non-Marxist ideas. I'm not implying that you want to do that, only that it's something that I've been thinking about. 
- Vyom's thoughts
	- Outlined his proposal
	- The BLM protests were huge with a huge impact in changing [[class consciousness]]. That's another reason to consider engaging with black struggles. 
	- His intention was not to introduce [[postmodernism]]. We should read Marxists. It's the content that matters, not the identity of the author. 
- Aadil's thoughts
	- Looking at other struggles around the world
	- Too much theory, not enough praxis
	- A subgroup would allow those with bandwidth to spare to study these thinkers
- Krissy's thoughts
	- We are forgetting here that the reason we study Marxist econ and stuff is to challenge postmodernism and other ideas in the activist sphere. 
	- Our consolidation levels are stable enough to examine incorrect ideas. We shouldn't worry too much about being influenced by non-Marxists. 
- Concrete proposal by Jacob
	- Start [[The Revolutionary Philosophy of Marxism (2018)]] in reading group
	- Add a discussion on the Civil Rights Movement and the [[Black Panther Party]].