# [[IMT]] Branch, 1-16-21
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
# News Updates
- [[Biden]]'s relief proposal indicates the Democrats are coming out of the gate compromising. Even a successful relief effort does nothing to solve any of the long-term problems of capitalism. Any bailout now simply delays and intensifies the crisis. 
- The powers of state repression are turning towards the right and are poised to expand under the coming administration. 
- Angela Merkel is leaving her post as German Chancellor. She has been a stalwart centrist there for her whole career in the Christian Democratic Union party. 
- The second impeachment against [[Trump]] is proceeding quickly, with broad support from Democrats and some GOP support. 
- Hundreds of those who participated in the DC insurrection have been tracked down and arrested, and many are asking [[Trump]] for pardons. 
# Discussion - [[What is Historical Materialism (2016)]]
- Intervention
	- Marxists must always be vigilant to prevent the non-materialistic views of mainsteam society from seeping into our analyses. 
	- It's easier to understand these ideas than it is to make sure that we always apply them in practice. 
	- Dialectical development of the hand and the brain
	- Who benefits from really understanding history?
	- Kropotkin's *Mutual Aid: A Factor of Evolution*
- Vyom's comments
	- Is it idealistic to say that we could fully control the forces of history?
	- Different perspectives matter in history, like the perspective of women or Black people in [[USA|American]] history.  
- [[Jacob]]'s comments
	- We cannot comfuse the method with the content of our analysis. Just because we know *how* to learn about a topic from a dialectical perspective, we still have to gather lots of accurate information. 
- Krissy's comments
	- Marxists don't claim that ideas and individual will have no place in events. 
	- Events are changed by decisions that individuals make, but those decisions are constrained by material facts. 
# AOB
- Reading group happening again this Wednesday. Covering the second half of the *Transitional Program*. 
- Potential questions for branch discussion
	- Vyom asks how we can asses the class balance of forces in the US?