# [[IMT]] Branch, 4-24-21
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## Current Events
- The IMT section in [[Germany]] reaches 100, an increase of almost 20% in the last three months.
- The [[UK]] section has resumed paper sales, selling over 600 papers in a single day, and making over 110 contacts for the organization. 
- Chauvin pronounced guilty. There's no such thing as justice under the capitalist state. Another person was killed by the police as the verdict was being read. 
- Tacoma news: PSE could expand fracking. The NW detention center is closing due to Inslee's ruling to close private prisons in WA. There's no clear place where these people will go.

## SR25 Mini-Leadoffs
### We're Not "All in This Together" (DM)
[[Biden]] has been elected on promises of unity, but this will really manifest itself as small reforms and platitudes. The measures that [[Biden]] has passed and will past are not enough to even dent the blow to living standards that COVID has brought. 

### Biden's "Diversity" Cabinet (TM)
[[Biden]]'s cabinet claims to be the most diverse ever. Upon examination, we see that Biden has dug up reactionaries of every ethnicity to pack his administration with. Bourgeois [[identity politics]] is being cynically used to act as a cover for the usual horrors perpetrated by the [[USA|American]] state. 

### The January "Insurrection" (CE)
On January 6th, a group of rightwing protestors took temporary control of the Capitol, threatening to stop the certification of the election. This unmasks the fragility of the US state, and is a sign of the dead end of capitalist development that the most powerful state cannot protect its most holy sanctum from a largely unarmed mob. The class nature of this mob is shown by the sympathetic and gentle attitude of the police towards them in the first hours of the protest.

[[Lenin]] said that when the ruling class is divided and unable to rule in the traditional way, a pre-revolutionary situation is brewing. 

### Censorship on Social Media (JW)


### The Civil War in the GOP (JaM)
The departure of [[Trump]] has opened a new chapter in the history of the GOP. The only base that the GOP has among the working class comes from the massive vaccum in the leadership of the working class.

### Democrats Back in Power (KM)
[[Democratic Party]] has regained control of the Presidency and Congress. We're now in the late period of the honeymoon period, but this period is ending quickly as many see that Biden is similar to [[Trump]] when it comes to his actual policies and actions. 

### A Program for Revolution (PN)
This is the program of the IMT. The political program of an organization is really really important. The program has to act as our guide to action, our calling card, our basis for rallying support and recruiting new members, and has to outline our perspectives and goals. For a few pages, that's a lot to ask! The first point on our program is the most important one. We think that the creation of a mass socialist political party is the next step for the workers movement here in the US. This could be a whole leadoff alone, so I'll force myself to move on to the next point. We also think that the labor movement will have to play a key role in the coming class struggle, and so we have a point in here advocating for the rebuilding of the labor movement along militant, class-struggle lines. Again, this could be a 60 minute discussion, so we just have to move on. 

The next few points are demands to end unemployment, guarantee housing and health care, and to make education free. We demand these things because it is precisely these quality of life improvements that capitalism ensures are impossible. If we fight for them, those who fight with us will begin to see this as well. 

Now we come to our demands related to oppression. We demand equal treatment for women and people of color, but we emphasize these things in a little different of a way than others do. Instead of treating these groups as their own separate struggles, we recognize that the oppression that these groups face is useful to the capitalists because it divides the working class. So we proceed on a basis of class unity. We demand that the labor movement and the working class mobilize to protect itself against racism, sexism, and xenophobia. I know I'm like a broken record here, but this point could also be a whole leadoff, so I'll leave it at that.

Further down our program, we have a point on fighting climate change. We make sure to specify that we want massive retraining programs for workers in the energy sector, so that the working class doesn't have to bear the burden of re-tooling the economy. We point out that only full nationalization of the commanding heights of the economy will allow for really fighting climate change, and that's the next point here. We don't shy away from the revolutionary implications of our program. We call for the nationalization of the large corporations and banks, to be controlled by the workers under a socialist economic plan. Here I should note that we would call for a [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]] to do this, not for the current capitalist state to do it. 

Finally, we have a point here on socialist internationalism. We don't stop at our own borders, and instead we want to carry the revolution internationally. We want to erase the imperialistic relationship that the [[USA]] has with most other countries, and create a worldwide socialist federation. 

A party's program is a big deal, and it really shows our perspectives and goals. I don't have nearly the time to give every point its due, so I would invite everyone to read our program, and to read [[Trotsky]]'s masterpiece, [[The Transitional Program (1938)]]. 

## IMT Internal Democracy Discussion
The standard format is to have a branch committee (BC) working for each branch, and then these BCs can send representatives to an area committee (AC). 

The BC really sets the tone for the branch, both politically and organizationally. This means those on the BC need to be both politically consolidated and professional. It's the BC's job to ensure that disagreements can be brought forward in a productive way, and to ensure the healthy growth of the organization, both in size and in consolidation.

- Basics of [[democratic centralism]]
	- Total freedom in debate
	- Total unity in action
		- Upwards and downwards accountability!
- Elevation of discussion to the political / professionalization
	- Bolshevism vs Menshevism
	- Duty to openly disagree
	- Comradely behavior
	- Concretization of proposals

## Bandwidth / Prioritization Planning

## Branch Social Planning

