# [[IMT]] Branch Notes, 3-13-21
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- General strike developing in [[Myanmar]]. The military have killed at least 70 people, which is horrible and is a sign that the state is really afraid of being overthrown. I think there are actually a lot of parallels between the article about Cuba and the situation in Myanmar. The goal of this movement is fundamentally bourgeois democracy, and we will see that this goal will be impossible to achieve without challenging the interests that really control Myanmar, which include China, Thailand, and Japan as the largest foreign investors. 
- Derek Chauvin's trial beginning. No matter what the outcome of the trial is, it's going to be a [[class consciousness]]-shaping event. 
- The leaders of the failed coup in [[Bolivia]] are starting to be arrested. The coup didn't have enough popular backing to sustain itself. While we critique MAS for not going far enough in ending [[capitalism]] in Bolivia, this is a positive development. 
- Breonna Taylor was murdered by police a year ago. 
- Prince Harry and Megan Markle aired a lot of issues about the internal culture in the monarchy. 
- The relief bill has been approved by [[Biden]]. It lacked a minimum wage increase, broke the promise of $2,000 checks. 
- [[Mexico]] is possibly going to legalize weed, seriously altering the drug trade. 
- [[Biden]] has promised that all Americans will be able to get vaccines by May 1st. 

## Political Discussion - [[Cuba 50 Years Later - Where is the Revolution Going (2009)]]
- My thoughts
	- The idea of [[permanent revolution]] demonstrates how little Stalinists tend to know about [[Trotskyism]]. They sometimes claim that Trotskyists only support the revolutions that failed, while we actually see revolutionary potential in movements that Stalinists actually tried to stop from moving past capitalism. 
	- This article was written in 2009, so to update the situation, Raul [[Castro]] has continued to move the economy towards capitalism, reducing state spending, and encouraging foreign investment. This shows the need for a left alternative in places like Cuba, to give people a third option between the bureaucratic control of [[Stalinism]] and the nightmare of a return to capitalism, which would be devastating if done incorrectly like the USSR did, and still bad if done more skillfully, like China has done. 
	- In 1960, 41% of the Cuban population was rural, and now 22% is rural, compared to around 2% of Americans who own farms. 10% of Americans have agricultural jobs, but most of these are proletarianized. 
- Tom's thoughts
	- Obama represented a section of the ruling class who wanted to change tactics towards Cuba. 
	- [[Trump]] represented the section who wanted to continue the failed tactics of blockade and isolation. 
- [[Jacob]]'s thoughts
	- Often the only two perspectives on Cuba are either liberal or stalinist. Either we have to throw them away, or we have to defend *everything* to do with Cuba.
	- Marxists should apply [[dialectical materialism]]! We have to see these things as having internal contradictions. 
	- There are differences between the revolutions in [[Russia]] and [[Cuba]]. In Cuba, similar to [[China]], it was really a revolutionary army that formed the basis for the revolution. 
- Jesse's thoughts
	- [[Castro]] was seen as an adventurist by the Stalinists in the Cuban CP. They actually backed Batista instead of Castro, purely for the USSR's foreign policy interest. 
	- After the revolution, Castro moved from being more of a nationalist to more of a socialist and a communist. 
	- [[Connolly]] warned the IRA during the pre-independence period that if they maintain capitalism after revolution, they would be under the same shackles as before. The real enemy was international [[capital]]. 
- Vyom's questions
	- How did the property relations change in Cuba after the revolution?
	- How are the market reforms changing these relations?

## Personal Updates
- Tomorrow is my one-year anniversary of IMT membership. I spent a really long time identifying as a socialist in a vague way, but my one year in this organization has really cemented my understanding of [[socialism]] and [[Marxism]] like nothing else. I'm really looking forward to the years to come. 
- 

## Organizational Points
### Setting plan for topics
- We should have a formal plan for when we set branch topics. Perhaps the first meeting of each month. 
- We should maintain focus. Branch discussion is for historical topics and entry-level analysis of standalone topics. Reading group is for the Marxist classics. One on ones are a good place for more in depth discussion of topics, and can have multiple sessions on one topic. 

### Plan for electing new AC
- Overview of AC positions
	- Branch secretary: political leadership role, does convening work
	- Contacts officer: manages contacts and ensures follow-up
	- Press officer: manages newspaper sales and stuff
	- Finance officer: keeps track of money and stuff
- AC role
	- Leadership of branch, with instant recall of course
	- Mainly does the organizational work and makes proposals and stuff