# Branch, Saturday, April 9
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-04-09]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- Supreme court reinstates Trump-era water ruling that limits the ability of Native tribes to preserve the water rights on their territory. This prevents tribes from blocking oil and gas pipelines, for instance. Another sign that nothing substantial has changed as the administrations swap. 
- Crisis in [[Pakistan]]

# ☭ The housing crisis in Seattle
- Fundamental issues of housing under capitalism
	- Landlordism as parasitical
- Tech boom
	- Since 2005, median household income has risen from $72,127 to $94,027 (increase of 30%)
	- In the same time period, median rent has risen from $1,014 to $1,621 (increase of 60%)
	- This shows that rents have risen twice as fast as income has in the last 17 years
	- The population has also increased dramatically, with a 20% increase since 2005. One out of five residents was either born here after 2005, or moved here from elsewhere. 
	- Nearly 100 people a day have moved to Seattle on average since 2005. It's self evident that fewer than 100 housing units per day have been built. That number is more like 16 units per day [3]. That means that in aggregate, there are more that 500,000 displaced residents since 2005, who either died, moved away, or became homeless. 
	- Drug epidemic: per capita drug-related hospital admissions spiked by 122% between 2005 and 2017. 
- Homeless population
	- 2006: nearly 8,000 total homeless were counted [2]
	- 2020: nearly 12,000 were counted during the "point-in-time" survey, but more than 40,000 people were homeless at some point in this county [1]
	- This is a point-in-time increase of 50% in the same time period as the income and rent figures
	- Total cost of homelessness is estimated at $1 billion in the Seattle area per year, which amounts to $25,000 per homeless person per year. Repeat hospitalization, police overtime, shelters, etc
- Government actions
	- There are 5,000 emergency shelter beds for homeless people in Seattle
	- New mayor Harrell pledges to build 2,000 units of affordable housing, while expanding the policy of "sweeping" encampments (destroying the posessions of the homeless and forcing them to construct new shelter elsewhere)
	- Note that affordable housing is defined as housing which a household could rent for 30% of its income. That means in a city where the median household income is now $94k, an apartment that costs $2,350 per month is "affordable." This will obviously not do much to turn the situation around. 
	- Hand in hand with rightwing news outlets like KOMO 5, who portray the situation as one of homeless' refusing to accept help and intentional drug abuse rather than lack of meaningful assistance leading to drug abuse and homelessness.
- Seattle police force
	- They've lost 375 officers in the wake of the [[June 2020 uprising]] and now have as many cops as there were in the 90s. They're funded to hire 125 more officers, but have only been able to hire seven due to low morale in the department. 
	- Crime is increasing, with violent crime up 32% since this time last year. 
	- City council has attempted to create a "demilitarized response force" to supplement the police with, but this has gone nowhere. Now the police are just refusing to answer low-priority calls. 
	- The "hotspot" strategy serves political goals while ignoring the actual reasons crime has increased. 
- Push for social housing
	- An initiative aims to create a public developer, which would have a board of 13 members (seven renters mandated). Housing built by the developer would be state owned, and rent-capped at 30% resident income. 
	- The developer would purchase existing housing stock, and replace departing tenants with a mix that satisfies a "cross class" metric - they want to create properties with a mix of incomes. 
	- Under this proposal, social housing must meet strict sustainability metrics as well. 
	- The initiative does not deal with how this would be paid for! 
- Our orientation
	- The social housing initiative has many good ideas, and a substantial investment in social housing would indeed mitigate this crisis. However, it's not going to happen in the way that it needs to, due to the massive power bloc of the developers, real estate industry, and homeowners. The ruling class will use its media outlets to make it seem like social housing equates to "decent folk" being forced to share a building with drug addicts and the mentally ill. 
	- There are many proposed solutions to this crisis, but ultimately, we have to remove the profit motive from this situation because it will never be profitable to house those who cannot afford to pay high rents. 
	- The only way to do this effectively is through a massive overhaul of the whole economy - we need to bring the housing market under the control of the working class. The workers would certainly set out on a campaign to freeze rents, provide adequate shelters, and end the processes that are literally dissolving the poorer layers of the working class into the [[lumpenproletariat]]
	- This can only be done through the creation of a [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]]
	- We cannot side step the political content of this crisis. The capitalists in Seattle, and the city government which is ultimately beholden to them, have chosen to allow the poorest layers of the working class here be sucked into homelessness, because it's more profitable to cater to the needs of industry, which requires new, attractive housing to attract skilled workers from elsewhere. 
- Sum up
	- Options for ending homelessness under a [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]]
	- Need for working class unity on this issue
	- Attempts to expropriate housing in Tacoma

# 📥 Contacts update from Chris
- Getting one to two contacts per week at this rate

# AOB
- Go over Box migration and minutes template
- Tabling etiquitte with sectarians

# Next meeting 
- Political topic: Identity politics / intersectionality
- Organizational topic: new procedures for consolidation?
- Location: possibly Mox Boarding House?

---
[1]: https://www.capitolhillseattle.com/2022/01/40800-new-method-for-counting-people-living-homeless-in-king-county-finds-thousands-missing-from-past-tallies/
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homelessness_in_Seattle
[3]: https://www.seattle.gov/Documents/Departments/OPCD/Demographics/AboutSeattle/Citywide_Permit_Report.pdf