---
origin: 2022-06-07
date: 2022-06-07
kind: Western Regional Committee
with: WRC comrades
---
# 2022-06-07 WRC
[[2022-06-07]]
#meeting/political 

---
# The History of Labor Militant
- Tom Trottier's leadoff 
	- 1964: [[Ted Grant]] had about 50 supporters in the [[UK]]. They were part of the [[Fourth International]]. This is when they released the *Militant* newspaper. 
	- 1965: they were kicked out of the Fourth International over some political disagreements over guerllaism, the nature of [[China]], etc.
	- 1974: [[CWI]] founded by Grant and his tendency.
	- The [[USA|American]] work started slowly, with individual comrades being recruited from different corners of the country. They were called Labor Militant. 
	- Tom let the CWI in 1996, after a nasty three-way split
	- The [[IMT]] has surpassed the size that the Labor Militant ever was in the [[USA]] and [[Canada]]. 
	- [[Communists must be honest]]! The CWI refused to admit that there were serious roadblocks in the 90s. 
	- If the conditions are wrong, and your methods are wrong, no amount of effort will grow the organization!
	- Only when we develop our [[cadre]] base can we take on other projects and campaigns. 
	- The [[dialectics|dialectical]] method should be applied to building the group, as well as intervening in the workers' movement. You have to build from the current phase of organization, not from a mechanical perspective. 
	- Comment on Seattle: if we have the right method, eventually we will be the dominant force no matter where we start from. 
	- [[Consciousness changes on the basis of events]], not on the basis of activism. 
- Discussion
	- How are our growth targets different from the mechanical perspective of the CWI? 
- My intervention
	- Experience of building in Seattle, the SA stronghold
		- Main orientation is towards immediate action (getting signatures for ballot efforts, money for Sawant's defense campaign)
		- Has created a barrier for us when tabling, as people assume we want their money
		- Disparity between BLM engagement and Sawant recall engagement
			- Background on recall campaign
			- Apparent lack of engagement with the [[June 2020 uprising]]
	- The differences between the [[CWI]] / [[Socialist Alternative]] and the [[IMT]]:
		- "The “Taaffe-style” leadership depends on gimmicks and has educated the members to believe that “mass workers’ parties” will arise as a result of “building a movement” and uniting tiny leftists groups into a “broad left” formation, or what is in essence the same thing—from thin air."
		- SA is recruiting people based on impressing them with their influence. If you depend on recruitment this way, you're painting yourself into a corner. This is why SA is forced to shout louder than its voice, so to speak, in their defense of Councilmember Sawant. If they lose that seat, there is no way to explain the necessity of a careful retreat, their membership will be demoralized and will certainly shed a large layer. 
	- Give update on SEA branch development -- in spite of the dominance of this opportunist group, we've managed to grow. Our branch formed in June 2020 with two comrades, and at the end of last month we recruited our 9th comrade to the branch. 

# Fighting Fund campaign ✊🏻🤑
- Goals: $360,000 total
	- Collective fundraising: $70,000
	- Supporters: $50,000
	- Internal collection: $240,000
- Fundraising internally:
	- Dinner parties / board game nights with entrance fees.
	- Selling comrades' art to raise money.
	- Viewing parties for the upcoming school.
- Fundraising from the periphery:
	- We want to raise $113 per comrade from our periphery. 
	- A sympathizer paying $25 monthly results in exceeding this target.
- Internal collection drive:
	- We're trying to tie the Fighting Fund pledge to the regional schools this year. 
	- The BAY branch is doing a Nov 5-6 regional school.
- Discussion
	- Finance needs to be heavily politicized, especially with newer comrades. 

# 🗓 Next meeting: [[2022-08-09 WRC]]