# Branch, Saturday, April 16
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-04-16]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- New inflation rate data
	- 8.5% since March 2021
- [[France|French]] election
	- Le Pen and Macron made it to the second round
	- Left wing candidate Melenchon denied entry by one percent, largely due to left factionalism
	- Macron has been totally exposed as fraudulent through his treatment of the Yellow Vest protestors, massive privatizations and rollbacks of reforms in his administration 
	- Support has eroded for the center, society is polarizing to the left and right
	- Melenchon is no [[Marxism|Marxist]], but he had the most radical program out of the left candidates, and did the best out of all of them
	- Is Le Pen a [[fascism|fascist]]? No, we should reject lesser-evilism here

# ☭ Marxism vs Identity Politics
- Questions
	- 
- Terminology: feminism vs womens' liberation
- [[Identity politics]] and individualism, moralism
- Positive and negative aspects of the [[feminism|feminist]] movement in [[Spain]]
- Analogy of the national question
- [[Postmodernism is a philosophy of despair]], this is also true of bourgeois feminism
- On the other hand, we can't fall into [[Economism]], and [[Workerism isn't revolutionary]] either
- The academy as transmission belt of bourgeois ideology
- Like the utopian socialists, feminist thinkers do far better in diagnosing problems than in providing solutions
- [[All oppression is founded on capitalism]]
- Do women have common interests across class lines?
	- The Black share of American wealth actually declined under the Obama administration
	- What is the common interest of a Syrian or Iraqi or even American woman with Hillary Clinton or Kamala Harris?
	- For LGBT issues: what is the common interest of a working class gay person with Tim Cook, the gay CEO of Apple?
	- What is the common interest of a trans worker with Caitlyn Jenner?
- Allyship vs solidarity
	- Ally: passive supporter of "marginalized voices," shouldn't get directly involved in ending oppression
	- Anecdote of office occupation at WWU in protest of racist and anti-semetic student being allowed to remain on campus. Activists refused to criticize the President due to his south Asian ethnicity, even though he likely made the decision or at least approved. Furthermore, all the POC activists relegated the larger group of white students to onlookers instead of calling on the white student body to take action
	- Anecdote of POC student movement at Evergreen "day of absence" ending up as ineffective and suffocating any solidarity. Since, enrollment has dropped 42% at the college
- Example of Quebec cutting access to English social services - perfect example of how identity politics can provide cover for austerity 
- [[The priviledge narriative isn't revolutionary]]! 
- Marxists have always stood for womens' liberation - [[Marx]] put foward the abolition of the family in 1848, and the Bolsheviks bringing womens' sufferage, free childcare, etc.

# 📥 Finance update
- Importance of finances
	- Donation to other countries' sections like Venezuela, Pakistan, Nigeria, etc.
	- Printing the paper, designing and distributing pamphlets, lots of hours spent by full-timers
- Our dues rate over time
	- One year ago: dues income was $175
	- This month: $310 in dues sent for the important work of national (annual increase of 77%)
	- Average dues rate of $38 per comrade
- Goals for SEA branch
	- Reach the average dues rate of $50 per comrade
	- Our CC contact, Jake, spends 2-4 hours a week on our branch alone, discussing things with me and other members. That means that if 100% of our dues went to him, he would be getting paid less than $4,000 annually to be a full-time, always-available person to discuss things with. And of course, he has other branches to attend to. 
	- This is more of an appeal to the higher-income members of branch than it is to those who are coming in under that $38 average payment. If your income allows you to make the extra sacrifice, please do! We have students and those with low-paying jobs who are unable to give more. 
	- If you want to discuss your dues rate, just reach out to me in Slack. Everything is confidential, etc.

# 📥 Preparing for Starbucks rally
- How to engage with workers
- Technical preparations
	- Printing flyers (~50 or so)
	- Ensuring good attendance
	- 150 RSVPs on the Socialist Alt FB event page, so likely more than 150 people will be there

# AOB
- All comrades should sign up for tabling sometime during the week
- Do we want to continue meeting here for free, or meet in a Fremont private room for $60?

# Next meeting 
- Political topic:
- Organizational topic: