# August 2021
`LINKS:` [[2021]]
#daily 

---
# First week (1st to 7th)
This was an interesting week. Lots of Warzone drama, we took acid, and I felt really down about my job search after getting yet another rejection. I went thrifting and I found a lot of good clothes for once! I also started using Todoist for my task-management, leaving [[Obsidian]] behind after all. 

As for the [[IMT]], this was a week of transition. We're moving to a twice-a-month reading group instead of weekly branch, and I think that will be an online meeting to allow Chris to attend without having to commute from Tacoma. 

I felt a lot of emotions this week. Highs were high and lows were real low. Hopefully things will settle out to a more stable atmosphere soon. I used to be so emotionally steady, and I feel like that's slipping away. I should really start meditating again. That's totally correlated with my loss of emotional centeredness. 

## Daily notes
- Sunday: [[2021-08-01]]
- Monday: [[2021-08-02]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-08-03]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-08-04]]
- Thursday: [[2021-08-05]]
- Friday: [[2021-08-06]]
- Saturday: [[2021-08-07]]

---
# Second week (8th to 14th)
This week I got a little more progress on the job hunt, we finished the [[bachelorette]], I had a good time meeting with a contact, and I found out how much I've really been writing in this program. It was hot as shit for a few days again. I got some harsh truth about finding a data science job. The library near our apartment opened and we checked out a bunch of books. 

## Daily notes
- Sunday: [[2021-08-08]]
- Monday: [[2021-08-09]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-08-10]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-08-11]]
- Thursday: [[2021-08-12]]
- Friday: [[2021-08-13]]
- Saturday: [[2021-08-14]]

---
# Third week (15th to 21st)
We went tubing down the Snoqualmie river with some of Tristan's soccer friends. I finished *Dune: Messiah.* I went to Crescent Bar with some friends from Friday through the end of the week. That was really relaxing. Overall, this was a relatively relaxing week. 

## Daily notes
- Sunday: [[2021-08-15]]
- Monday: [[2021-08-16]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-08-17]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-08-18]]
- Thursday: [[2021-08-19]]
- Friday: [[2021-08-20]]
- Saturday: [[2021-08-21]]

---
# Fourth week (22nd to 28th)
We finished up the Crescent Bar camping trip, arriving home Monday night. I realized that my tooth had a crack in it, which I got checked out. I got another job interview, through my Dad's friend Tim Carlin. Evan came from LA to visit on Thursday, and we hosted him over the weekend. 

## Daily notes
- Sunday: [[2021-08-22]]
- Monday: [[2021-08-23]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-08-24]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-08-25]]
- Thursday: [[2021-08-26]]
- Friday: [[2021-08-27]]
- Saturday: [[2021-08-28]]

---
# Fifth week (29th to 31st)
These few days at the end of the month were dedicated to hosting Evan, and trying to get back in the swing of things as our guests left and we returned to our normal routine. 

## Daily notes
- Sunday: [[2021-08-29]]
- Monday: [[2021-08-30]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-08-31]]

---
# Summary
This month, we took acid, went camping, and hosted Evan from LA. The library opened near our house. It was a month of highs and lows, and there were certainly times that I didn't have my shit together whatsoever. But it was better than July! The summer gave us one last "fuck you" with a few days in the 90s, but otherwise the weather was near perfect.  I took 56 notes. 

---
# This month's notes
```dataview
TABLE file.ctime AS Date
FROM -#daily
WHERE file.ctime.month = 08 AND file.ctime.year = 2021
SORT file.ctime
```