# July 2021
#daily 

---
# First week (1st to 3rd)
```
            S  M  T  W  T  F  S  |
LEARN  --->             2  0  0  | (/15 pomo)
HUNT   --->             5  4  0  | (/20 jobs or 5C)
CREATE --->             2  2  3  | (/30 pomo)
```
## Reflection
This week was just after the intense heatwave. We got the game Cuphead and played it a lot on Friday and Saturday. Christine came over and we got ice cream.

- Thursday: [[2021-07-01]]
- Friday: [[2021-07-02]]
- Saturday: [[2021-07-03]]

---
# Second week (4th to 10th)
```
            S  M  T  W  T  F  S  |
LEARN  ---> 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  | (0/15 pomo)
HUNT   ---> 0  2  1  0  2  3  0  | (8/10 jobs)
CREATE ---> 0  0  2  0  5  0  0  | (7/30 pomo)
```

## Reflection
On Sunday, [[Eylen]] and I went to a house of one of her mom's friends, Vadim. The next day, I helped Eylen set up a new ill-fated desk and got lunch with [[Jacob]]. On Tuesday and Wednesday, I felt really unproductive and barely got anything done. However, Wednesday evening I started to feel better and set up a new task management system in [[Obsidian]]. By the next day, I was back on the ball. Friday was Mom's birthday, and I spoke with her for an hour or so. On Saturday, I had branch and met Chris Crane, the comrade who just moved to Tacoma. He was very sharp and professional, and I'm really looking forward to having another more experienced person around. Saturday night, Jacob and I hung out with Jeff, Ari, Jordan, and Rae. That was great and I hope that I see them more often.

- Sunday: [[2021-07-04]]
- Monday: [[2021-07-05]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-07-06]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-07-07]]
- Thursday: [[2021-07-08]]
- Friday: [[2021-07-09]]
- Saturday: [[2021-07-10]]

---
# Third week (11th to 17th)
```
            S  M  T  W  T  F  S  
LEARN  ---> 0  3  2  4  0  0  0  | (9/15  pomo)
HUNT   ---> 0  7  2  3  6  2  0  | (20/20 jobs)
CREATE ---> 0  2  2  7  3  0  0  | (14/30 pomo)
```

## Reflection
On Monday, I bought [[Dune (1965)]] from a local bookstore and started reading it furiously. By Saturday I had read over 400 pages! On Wednesday, I attended [[2021-07-14 MLCon]], which was interesting but not that useful from a [[networking]] perspective. On Thursday, [[Eylen]] and I had another fight about the Bezos video since I let it go public and get a lot of views again. I really ramped up my job search this week, and I did 20 whole applications. 

- Sunday:[[2021-07-11]]
- Monday: [[2021-07-12]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-07-13]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-07-14]]
- Thursday: [[2021-07-15]]
- Friday: [[2021-07-16]]
- Saturday: [[2021-07-17]]

---
# Fourth week (18th to 24th)
```
            S  M  T  W  T  F  S  |
LEARN  ---> 3  0  1  0  1  1  0  | (3/15 pomo)
HUNT   ---> 0  0  0  0  5  3  0  | (8/20 jobs)
CREATE ---> 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  | (0/30 pomo)
```

## Reflection
This week was pretty rough to be honest. Sunday was alright, but Sunday night I got really stoned and started to feel like my life was out of balance. I started to feel really burnt out and needing a break from the job search, which I took from Monday through to Wednesday. 

At first, I spent my time "relaxing" by playing Proejct Zomboid, but on Wednesday I realized that playing videogames doesn't really relieve my [[burnout]], it just distracts me. I decided to really embrace [[boredom]] as a way to rest my brain, and that worked much better. On Thursday, I was able to ease back into my normal routine. 

The things I enjoyed most this week were my one-on-one with Tom (as well as the [[2021 IMT World Congress]]), which reinvigorated me politically, and seeing Vivien on the 24th and 25th. That was really nice. 

- Sunday: [[2021-07-18]]
- Monday: [[2021-07-19]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-07-20]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-07-21]]
- Thursday: [[2021-07-22]]
- Friday: [[2021-07-23]]
- Saturday: [[2021-07-24]]

---
# Fifth week (25th to 31st)
```
            S  M  T  W  T  F  S  |
LEARN  ---> 0  0  3  0  2  0  0  | (5/15 pomo)
HUNT   ---> 0  4  4  0  C  0  0  | (8/20 jobs, 1C)
CREATE ---> 0  4  1  0  0  0  0  | (5/30 pomo)
```

## Reflection
On Sunday, I bought Dune: Messiah. This week, I read so much of that book it was wild. This week, I attended the [[2021 IMT World Congress]] which was really re-invigorating for me politically. On Tuesday, I got another interview, for a performance analyst position at Code3! I felt like the interview went badly, but I actually got a call back, and started working on a take-home project for them. On Friday, Eylen and I went to the park and watched a performance of *Alice In Wonderland* that we just stumbled into, which was fun. 

- Sunday: [[2021-07-25]]
- Monday:[[2021-07-26]]
- Tuesday: [[2021-07-27]]
- Wednesday: [[2021-07-28]]
- Thursday: [[2021-07-29]]
- Friday: [[2021-07-30]]
- Saturday: [[2021-07-31]]

---
# Summary
This was kind of a hard month. I felt burnt out for a whole week there, but there were some good times. I saw my Seattle friends and that was nice. Overall, this was an interesting month of transition into a post-[[COVID-19]] world as things open up and I start to have a social life again. But it's hard to balance that with the needs of my job hunt and my personal mental health, not to mention the [[IMT]]! Jacob is taking a step back, and that means I am the most "senior" leader of the SEA branch. We're going to rebalance though, and I'm trying really hard to stay balanced. 