# 📅 April 2022
`LINKS:` [[2022-03 March]] // [[2022-05 May]] // [[2022]]
#daily 

---
# Stats
```tracker
searchType: fileMeta
searchTarget: cDate, numWords
xDataset: 0
startDate: 2022-04-01
endDate: 2022-04-30
folder: /
summary:
    template: "Total word count: {{sum(dataset(1))}}"
```
```dataview
TABLE length(rows) AS "Total notes"
FROM -#daily
WHERE file.ctime.month = 4 AND file.ctime.year = 2022
GROUP BY true
```
# Summary
This month was one of activity. As the weather started to warm up, I went to a monster truck rally, a Lights concert, a Starbucks Workers United rally, and a branch social (not in that order). We saw friends - Lydia stayed the night, saying goodbye before she leaves for South Dakota for four months. We went to Bellingham, staying with Celeste and Katy, and I made time to go see Jesse and Drew. From day to day, I went on lots of walks towards the end of the month, enjoying the weather in the 60s and even 70 on one day. I walked 160,000 steps (average of 5.3k daily, and nearly 80 miles overall), and biked 43.5 miles. 

---
# First week
This (short) week, I had a bit of a stressful time. Chris didn't book the meeting venue, so I had to scramble to find somewhere else, and we ended up meeting online. On Saturday we had the social event, which was pretty nice, although my stomach hurt really bad for some reason during it. In the evening, we went to a monster truck really which was really fun. We got some incredibly cheesy shirts that commemorated various moster trucks from the rally. 

- Friday: [[2022-04-01]]
- Saturday: [[2022-04-02]]

---
# Second week
This week, we had a birthday brunch with Bean and Jake. I met up with a Socialist Appeal comrade who was visiting Seattle. We went and saw Lights in concert at the Showbox. I was harassed by a Spartacist at a tabling session. It was 70 degrees on Thursday, the hottest of the year so far. We had some friends over to hang out, and I met Eylen's "bumble bitches" who were cool. We hung out at Ari and Jeff's apartment in Columbia City. 

This week was pretty action packed when I look back on it, but it was a nice pace and on top of everything, I was able to keep the house very tidy. A pretty nice week!

- Sunday: [[2022-04-03]]
- Monday: [[2022-04-04]]
- Tuesday: [[2022-04-05]]
- Wednesday: [[2022-04-06]]
- Thursday: [[2022-04-07]]
- Friday: [[2022-04-08]]
- Saturday: [[2022-04-09]]

---
# Third week
We spent the first few days in Bellingham. When we came back, I had a meeting with Janet and I introduced the idea of getting a raise, but that can't happen until June apparently. John told me that he has to step back from active membership, and wants to be a sympathizer. We went to a striking Starbucks store and had a great intervention there. It was really inspiring to see those workers standing up to the corporation, and they seemed thankful for our help. 

- Sunday: [[2022-04-10]]
- Monday: [[2022-04-11]]
- Tuesday: [[2022-04-12]]
- Wednesday: [[2022-04-13]]
- Thursday: [[2022-04-14]]
- Friday: [[2022-04-15]]
- Saturday: [[2022-04-16]]

---
# Fourth week
The new H Mart opened in our neighborhood, I set more goals relative to my job hunt, Leon offered to take me on as a TA again. We got ready to host Lydia for the weekend, since she's moving to South Dakota. On Saturday, I didn't go to branch btut I did attend a Starbucks union rally afterwards with some BHAM comrades, which was fun. 

- Sunday: [[2022-04-17]]
- Monday: [[2022-04-18]]
- Tuesday: [[2022-04-19]]
- Wednesday: [[2022-04-20]]
- Thursday: [[2022-04-21]]
- Friday: [[2022-04-22]]
- Saturday: [[2022-04-23]]

---
# Fifth week
We biked to Magnuson park and spent time on walks as the weather heated up finally. It was a low-key week that felt like it contained a lot, since I got out of the house so many times to walk around and enjoy spring. The highlight of the week was probably Saturday, which was National Independent Bookstore Day. We went to Elliot Bay and got a new book, enjoying the festive atmosphere. 

- Sunday: [[2022-04-24]]
- Monday: [[2022-04-25]]
- Tuesday: [[2022-04-26]]
- Wednesday: [[2022-04-27]]
- Thursday: [[2022-04-28]]
- Friday: [[2022-04-29]]
- Saturday: [[2022-04-30]]
