# Metis Notes for Tuesday, January 5th
`LINKS:` [[metis week 1]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/career

---
# Lecture - Intro to [[NumPy]]
NumPy is a very powerful tool, and extends far beyond the normal things we can do in [[Python]]. Under the hood, [[Pandas]] is really using Numpy. 

For more information, see the `intro_to_numpy.ipynb` in my GitHub. 

First of all, we need to discuss *broadcasting.* If we want to apply a mathematical operation to a list, we would normally have to loop through it. This takes a really long time for a big list. If we treat this list as an array instead, we can broadcast the operation to all objects in the array simultaneously, which is way faster. 

In fact, there's a huge time difference for these two methods. If we loop through, a simple addition takes 448 microseconds to apply to 10,000 numbers in a list. With broadcasting in numpy, it takes only 3 microseconds. 

Another important function of numpy is *filtering.* We can filter arrays just like we would in pandas. We just have to execute a logic check on the array. 

Numpy is great for random sampling and number draws. We can pass `np.random.uniform(min,max,n)` to make `n` draws between the `min` and the `max` that will form a [[normal distribution]]. We could do the same with other kinds of [[distributions]] (see [[data and distributions]]).

Of course, we can also perform matrix multiplication in numpy. We can easily pass `matrix_a @ matrix_b`. Obviously the normal rules of matrix multiplication still apply. If matrix A is 4x2, then matrix B has to be 2x4. Be careful, since if you give numpy 1D arrays, it will calculate the dot product instead of multiplying it as a matrix. 

We can pass `matrix_a.T` to transpose matrix A. 

The way that numpy can work so fast is through *vectorization.* Numpy will notice when this is possible and do it behind the scenes. For example, let's say we want to find the [[euclidian distance]] between 2 vectors...

```python
vec = np.array([1,2])
other_vecs = np.random.uniform(size=(100,2)) # making 100 vectors

x = all_vecs[0]
np.sqrt((vec[0] - x[0])**2 + (vec[1] - x[1])**2)
```

We just create a bunch of vectors, and then find the distances quite easily. We can even do this for more than two vectors at once...
	
```python
np.sqrt(np.sum((all_vecs - new_vec)**2, axis=1))[:10]

more_vecs = np.random.uniform(size=(10000,2))
np.sqrt(np.sum((more_vecs - vec)**2, axis=1))[:10]
```

# Lecture - Project design
- The goal is to think about the iterative design process and the MVP mentality.
- Bad approach
	- Start with [[data]]
	- Figure out what problem we can solve
	- Analysis
	- Present the results
- The issue with the above approach is that it doesn't start with a question. We want to find data that can solve our problem, not the other way around. 
- A better approach (see [[data science workflow]])
	- Start with the end user. What do they want? We don't just analyze for the sake of analysis. 
	- Brainstorm ideas based on the problems that the user has, and how we could find a solution. 
	- Prototype these ideas to create a **minimum viable product (MVP)**. 
	- Iterate! 
- Failing fast is good. Try an approach, and quickly find out the problems with it. Then move to a better approach. Don't just sit around trying to think of the best possible solution right at the start. 
- **Human centered design** is a big concept. Center the needs of the user or the client in the process. 
- Minimum viable product
	- Minimum: could something simpler or faster work?
	- Viable: does it actually work?
	- Product: does it add value and meet needs?
	- Think scooter, not racecar. It's better to ramp up from a skateboard, to a scooter, to a bike, to a motorcycle, to a car. Don't spend the whole time trying to build a racecar, even if at the end the racecar is better than the car. 

# Talk by Jason Moss, founder of Metis
- Founded in 2013
- Birthed by Kaplan. Moss was head of strategy in Kaplan before going over to the Metis brand. 
- It would be easy to be intimidated by the backgrounds of others in the bootcamp. Impostor syndrome is a very real part of the experience of getting into [[data science]]. Metis has an average acceptance rate of 25-30%, so if we're here, we belong to be here. 
- Their goal for how intense the camp is is like a swimming pool. They want us to be neck deep, but not drowning. They also don't want us to be wading too shallowly in the water. 
	- Different periods of the course will feel differently, but the instructors won't let us drown. 
- Feedback is important. Metis has done around 80 bootcamps, but the material is constantly new and evolving. Therefore, feedback is really important for Metis. Pretty much every innovation that came to Metis came from student feedback. 
- In late March, Metis is splitting the bootcamp into a few tracks. They range in price, scope, and length. They did this because it would open more paths to more people. *Realistically, they probably did this to make more money since most can't afford / wouldn't want to commit to a full length, full scope [[data science]] bootcamp. *

# Intro to [[career]] support
- Jen Raimone is director of careers and student support. 
- What is career support
	- Phase 1: during bootcamp
	- Phase 2 after graduation
- Career advisor is co-pilot. We are the driver in the search but they can help navigate and map out the path ahead. 
- Aspects of support
	- 1-on-1 meetings. We should schedule a meeting with our assigned advisor between weeks 2-9. 
		- Help to create customized plans after graduation. 
	- Speaker series
		- 6-8 speakers come and talk about their career which offers a good perspective about how people really get jobs in this field. 
		- Ask questions! This is a great networking opportunity. Make a connection on LinkedIn after the event. 
		- We also have access to previous recordings from past years
	- Workshops
		- Networking: teaching us how to network well, which can be hard. 
		- Resume & cover letters: best practices
		- Interview prep
		- Salary negotiation
		- LinkedIn tips for our profile
		- Next steps after graduation
		- Some of these are live online, some of these are recordings that we will have access to. 
	- Interview prep and support
		- Pair programming prepares us for the interview. Lots of the questions we work on there are interview questions we might see
		- Technical round robin
			- We are gonna do technical question practice circles during week 10. We'll rotate between careers and instruction and talk a lot about the kinds of questions we might see in an interview
		- Mock interviews
			- 50 minute one-on-one, scheduled after the bootcamp with our advisors. 
	- The hiring network
		- The Metis graduate directory is full of all the alumni to show us off. There are over 500 hiring partners that regularly hire Metis alumni and they'll be alerted to our profiles being posted to the directory. 
	- Post grad
		- Grads are responsible for the flow of their job search but will have access to unique support from their advisor. 
		- Some people just check in once, but others prefer weekly check-ins with their advisor. 
		- We'll still have access to the alumni slack, and to Metis speakers, events, and workshops. 
- Our commitments
	- We have to participate in 1:1s actively and honestly. 
	- Attend speaker series and workshops actively
	- Deliverables on time
	- Responding to careers dept quickly, especially post grad
- Employment and licensure
	- Metis is a licensed org by all the states. 
	- They must report on curriculum, and have to produce competitive candidates
	- They could be audited at any time to see if their outcomes are still good
	- For us, this means...
		- We have to verify employment after 30 days of getting a job. 
		- The formal category of waiver exists - someone who does not need career support. 
- Everything is scheduled through **Calendly**