---
story_date: 2020-09-07
type: bio
---
# The time I got arrested
---
> [!Tips]
> [[Good stories have stakes]] ([[Stakes can be internal or external]])
> [[Good stories involve change]]
> [[Good stories require contradiction]]

I moved to Seattle in July of 2020. It was a stormy time for the country, and for Seattle in particular. I had been in relatively sleepy Bellingham during the beginning of the George Floyd protests. Whenever there were major events in Seattle, like the abandonment of the East Precinct, there would be a pathetic echo in Bellingham. Being a socialist, I was eager to get involved in the most radical mass movement that I had seen in my lifetime, and so before our apartment was even unpacked fully, I was donning a respirator and a helmet to go stand up against police brutality.

I would be lying if I said that my involvement wasn't at least partially motivated by excitement and the exhilaration of participating in a mass movement. I had studied the Russian, Spanish, and German revolutions, and I was eager to see what the fuss was all about. Although I theoretically understood that adventuristic confrontations with the police were no route to a real revolution, I couldn't resist the urge to join the crowds. If there was going to be a protest in my neighborhood, I wanted to be there. 

When I began attending protests, I found an intoxicating atmosphere of solidarity and purpose. I had never felt part of something so real as I did when I was in a crowd attempting to hold back the police, and there was nothing so motivating as seeing the real evidence of police brutality clear as day in front of me. I saw police officers hit unarmed protestors in the head with batons, bikes, and fists. I saw the police roll over a protestors head with a bike wheel, and I saw police pepper spray nurses, children, and anyone who got within 12 feet of them. 

The protests went on for months, even after the CHOP was dismantled and "swept" by the police. I was there for that, only to watch gloating cops eat the food that activists had gathered for the homeless, standing and chatting behind a wall of riot police who seemed eager to knock heads. The crowd was too small to prevent them from loading the posessions of anyone who had been camping in the park into garbage trucks, never to be seen again.

Needless to say, by September of 2020 the excitement had been nourished by a healthy dose of anger at what the police in my city were able to get away with. 

On the day of my arrest, a march had been organized to head to the Seattle Police Union building in SoDo. I rode the light rail there with a few friends and emerged to find a crowd of 50-100 people gathered in preparation for the action. I should have known the temperment of the crowd from the presence of "Black Hammer," a cult that masks themselves as black liberationists. Nevertheless, we avoided them while talking with some people and distributing flyers and socialist magazines. 

The march organizers, headed by a tall, balaclava-toting black man, explained that we were going to the union building to dump bags of trash on their doorstep, and gave a demonstration of how we could "de-arrest" those the police were targeting. The idea was to loop your arms around the person who was being grabbed, and then the person behind you would do the same, and it would create a chain pulling you back into the crowd. I paid little attention, having no idea that I would be attempting this in only a few hours. 

As the march began, a caravan of police cars came out of nowhere, snagging a lone protestor and disappearing before anyone knew what was happening. I began to get a bad feeling about this march, but shook it off, knowing that the police had always been antagonistic, and there were enough people here to protect me. 

The march was pretty standard fare for those days - slogans of "abolish the police" and "ACAB" (all cops are bastards) echoed through the streets as we marched under the sun, still hot at the beginning of fall. Contrary to the media's coverage, these marches were quite conscious of when to make noise and when to be quiet, when to be peaceful and when to cause havoc. As we passed by homeless encampment under a bridge, we quieted down, knowing the there could be sleeping people around. At the next bridge, some black-clad protestors dropped a banner, "kill cops." I thought that sort of messaging was unhelpful and probably isolated the movement from the rest of the working class that we should have been relying on, but up until now I put up with it for the sake of involving myself in these sorts of things. Calling that kind of stuff out wouldn't have worked in that community. 

Before we arrived at our destination, I witnessed my final, and most severe, red flag of the event - something that should have caused me to leave immediately. I smelled gasoline, as a man in a floral shirt, shorts, and sunglasses strolled past me with a case of Coronas. Looking back, this was a clear sign that things were going to get out of hand quick, but I brushed it off and only thought "wow, that's going to be wild." I really should have put two and two together on that one, and known that this wasn't going to be any sort of ordinary protest. 

As we arrived at the police union building, I prepared for the standard confrontation - the protestors would form a defensive wall, the police would announce that this protest had been deemed illegal, and issue an order to disperse. Then we would back away while the police advanced, hopefully with enough time to leave the trash. 

That's not how it happened at all. We formed a shield wall, with me and my friends a healthy distance from the front line. Then, we all heard some loud music, "Save a horse, ride a cowboy" by Big & Rich. I initially thought it must be from a protestor's speaker, but we soon realized that it was actually from the exterior speakers on the police union building. As we reckoned with this strange situation, a force of about 25 cops on bikes rode around a corner from out of sight, charging immediately into the crowd at full speed. The crowd buckled, shocked at the immediate aggression shown by the police as they practically dove headfirst into the center of the crowd. 

Instantly, I was face to face with an officer's pepper spray, and instinctively jumped back as he began to indiscriminately spray anyone he could see. From that moment, the goal of all the protestors was just to get out of there. We circled back and attempted to form a united group again, and began to retreat. From out thin air, legions of police materialized, along with armored vehicles, and SWAT officers toting assault rifles and grenade launchers filled with who knows what sort of munitions. 

The police pushed the retreating crowd against the wall of a building, forcing everyone to walk by a few at a time, as the police pointed guns in everyone's faces and grabbed anyone they wanted. We survived that gauntlet, and joined the rear of the crowd. 

We were all forced to march at a blistering pace, as the police rode their bikes towards us at nearly jogging speed, shouting "Move back! Move back!" We couldn't go fast enough, with hundreds of people at our back and the aggressive cops in front of us as we retreated. That's when the police, out of nowhere, grabbed my friend Jeff. As if on cue, the police up and down the line began to snag people out of the crowd. They grabbed the person in front of me, and, following my training, I grabbed his backpack as someone grabbed mine. 

We now entered a tug-of-war between the police and the crowd, where my new comrade and I were the rope. Unfortunately, where we had imagined a mass of support laid behind us, there were only a dozen or so people, and the rest of the crowd continued to fall back, too disorganized to realize what was going on. We lost the tug-of-war, as the police slammed me to the asphalt. An officer shouted in my ear "You're under arrest for assaulting an officer!" and handcuffed me.

From my experience, when intense events happen, there's an odd feeling that your daily reality has slammed headfirst into the world that you intellectually knew was there, but had never really believed until now. That's what I was feeling in that moment. 

My glasses had been flung from my face, along with my respirator and helmet, as they slammed me down. They rolled me over and began to slice my backpack off me, when I told them there was a buckle. Fortunately, they listened and I still have that backpack today. They read me my rights from a small card and asked my name. Knowing they had my wallet with my ID, I told them what they wanted to know, and asked that they retrieve my glasses, which had been partially smashed. They put them back on my face for me. 

Reorienting myself, I saw that two of my friends had also been arrested, but the rest were nowhere to be seen, which was a good thing. At this point, the adrenaline began to fade and be replaced by a sense of boredom as we waited for what seemed like an hour, sitting on the sideboard of a police van. We saw teams of cops moving past, following the march back towards downtown. It was interesting to see their logistics, with multiple teams for different purposes.

The arresting officers began trying to loosen us up, asking questions like where we lived, our education, why we were there, no doubt trying to get evidence that we participated in any illegal activities. One of the officers even started having a political debate with me, saying "What you people don't understand, is if the police lose, millions will die." My friend Jeff was also berated by an even more bloodthirsty seeming cop, who was yelling at him about libertarianism or something. 

After a while, they lost interest in us and moved on to a nearby boy who seemed no older than 18, who they accused of arson. We told him to not tell the cops anything, and that he would be okay. They apparently knew about the molotov-coronas, and that was why they behaved so aggressively. 

To this day, I have my theories about the man in the hawaiian shirt with those beers. Generally, the more "radical" and "serious" a protestor thinks themselves to be, the more they dress like a soldier. People wore balaclavas, body armor, and generally concealed their identities when they were preparing for felonies. Not hawaiian-shirt guy! He looked like he was planning a trip to the beach, not preparing to firebomb a police establishment. I can't prove that he was planted, but if he was, it gave the police a great excuse to attack the marchers. 

Anyway, after an hour or so we were loaded into the back of a police van and driven to the West Precinct. There, we were brought in through an underground parking lot into their intake center, which was a chaotic mess. There were dozens of arrested protestors who were locked in a series of holding cells. People were screaming obscenities at the police and chanting. We were put into a small room with 5 or 6 other arrested protestors. We were still handcuffed at this point, which was becoming more and more uncomfortable. The room was probably 6 by 12 feet, with the only window being a small rectangle in the door. We would take turns shuffling there to look out, and watching a clock through a reflection in a window - seeing the hours go by. We were in there for four hours in total as the cops processed prisoners individually. There was a great feeling of solidarity there. We were all in this together. 

The process of arrest, booking, fingerprinting, and photographing took place over a series of 8 or 10 more hours, at that precinct and later at the city jail downtown. The general atmosphere was that of the DMV, only with a lot more aggression. We would wait for hours in a small concrete room, and then be inexplicably moved to another small windowless concrete room where we would wait for hours more. 

In that situation, the smallest victories become delicious. It was such a relief to have the handcuffs removed, and to be able to sit on a metal bench instead of crouching on the ground. 

Remember when that protestor was abducted at the very start of the march? We ran into him! He went through processing at the same time as us, and revealed that it took much longer since he refused to tell the cops his name, as he had an outstanding warrant. He said that his plan was to just ride out the 72 hour hold that they could keep him for without charging him, and hope that they wouldn't figure out who he was by then. I have no idea what happened to him, he was whisked away - to another small concrete room, no doubt. 

All in all, it wasn't as bad as a normal arrest would be. I had my comrades beside me, and we tried to make light of the situation as best we could. The clothes that they made us change into were surprisingly comfortable as well, they were basically pajamas. 

We were released "on our own recognizance" at 2 or 3 in the morning, after being in the system for around 12 hours. We hadn't had any water the whole time, and I was let free into downtown Seattle without a phone, wallet, or keys. The cops who arrested me had put all my belongings in my backpack, which I had to trek to the evidence locker to get the next day. 

Luckily, Eylen had been tracking my progress all day. After hours of not getting a response back, she tracked my phone to the police precinct, and eventually admitted to herself that I had been arrested. She refreshed the arrest records website over and over, waiting for me to appear as "released." Then she booked it downtown, meeting us on the side of the road next to a gas station where we got some bottled water. 

Fortunately, that's the end of the story. I was never charged with anything, much less the "assaulting an officer" that had been shouted in my ear by the cops. I feel like I've learned a lot from the experience, and it's informed my ideas about how to engage politically, and also made me more aware of the carceral system that exists almost in another dimension of small, concrete rooms across the country. 