---
author: Corelis van Vliet
genre: political
---
# A Transition to Nowhere (2020)
`SOURCE:` PDF
`TAGS:` #article 

---
> [!Context]
> This article is a critique of [[The Transitional Program (1938)]], written in the journal *Prometheus.*

The author explains that he means to criticize the transitional program from a communist perspective. He argues that the current conception of this program has a negative impact on the radical current of [[Trotskyism]] (PDF, p.3). 

# Capitalism in decline?
Vliet argues that Trotsky broke with the [[minimum-maximum program]], and says that this program was the method of the [[Bolsheviks]] and the old [[reformism|Social Democratic]] movement. Explaining [[People & Organizations/Trotsky]]'s (incorrect) conception of the min-max program, the author says that according to Trotsky, the minimum demands were able to be accomodated within capitalism, while the maximum demands were not (Ibid, p.3). This is also my understanding of this kind of program.

The author further argues that Trotsky, in breaking with the minimum-maximum program, breaks with the concept of "revolutionary patience." To the author, revolutionaries must patiently "build a movement which wins the majority of the people for [[socialism]]," while instead, the Trotskyists are attempting to organize people for purely economic demands, and relying on the fact that these demands are impossible under capitalism to radicalize the people towards a socialist goal. He argues that Trotskyist groups place their bet that this process will catapult them into relevance during periods of crisis (Ibid, p.4). 

# Theoretical decline
Vliet believes that Trotsky was too confident in the fragility of capitalism, and argues that it is much more resilient than he and subsequent Trotskyists accept. The author continues, saying that Trotsky is wrong to have faith that the masses will arrive at politically socialist consciousness through the struggle for better living conditions. To him, class consciousness arises due to the patient work of revolutionaries who spread revolutionary ideas. He accuses the Trotskyists of sticking to "bread and butter" demands in lieu of political demands that make the case for a social revolution (Ibid, p.5). I think this is a weak point in the argument. Of course consciousness changes on the basis of *some* conscious recruitment, but it is material events that open the door to such recruitment. The author seems to believe that Trotskyists don't discuss revolution whatsoever, simply because their program discusses economic demands primarily. 

Arriving at a discussion of revolution, the author notes that it is not the most theoretically advanced groups that take power during these crises, but the most politically organized ones, with the deepest roots among the working class. He calls our attention towards the revolution in [[Egypt]] recently, where the Muslim Brotherhood was able to take power, being the most consolidated and connected organization (Ibid, p.5). I think this is an interesting point, but it does not negate the need for theoretical clarity. Furthermore, it raises the question of how a revolutionary organization *develops* those connections with the masses. In the Trotskyist view, it does so precisely through the demands that this author criticizes. 

The author contines this train of argument, saying that the Trotskyist conception of revolution is fundamentally tinged with [[Blanquism]] by relying on a strategy of "tricking" the masses into building socialism (Ibid, p.6). For me, this is a stretch. The author seems to be unwilling to accept that revolutionary situations develop outside the control of the revolutionary party. His conception of revolution seems to be that enough people join the Communist Party, and then a revolution is declared. This ignores history. For instance, the Bolsheviks were insignificant even at the start of 1917. It was indeed their patient work that allowed them to take power, but adhering to the transitional program does not preclude a group from doing such patient work. 

Vliet begins a discussion of the true meaning of the minimum - maximum program, saying that Trotsky had a fundamental misunderstanding. In the author's view, Trotsky associated the minimum demands with the bourgeois revolution, and therefore said that in an era of declining capitalism, such demands weren't revolutionary. In contrast, the author believes that the minimum demands are "the basis for the [[What is the dictatorship of the proletariat and why is it needed?|dictatorship of the proletariat]], describing the actions that such a state would carry out and the prerequisites for the establishment of this state, while the maximum demands are a description of the construction of socialism and [[communism]] (Ibid, p.6). To me, this seems rather ultraleft. Right now, the masses aren't interested in establishing a [[dictatorship of the proletariat]]. They won't be, until the eve of a revolution. How does the author intend to build a revolutionary party with the political seizure of power as the "minimum" demand?

The author's final criticism is what he calls Trotsky's "fetishism of council or soviet democracy." He argues that while this is the form that the Russian workers used to seize power, it has serious flaws that led to degeneration. The author believes that a soviet system requires a constantly mobilized electorate, which is only possible during revolutionary ferment. In the declining participation in the Russian soviets, the authors sees an issue of structure that forced decisionmaking into the executive committees, accelerating bureaucratization. Instead, the author says that "the alternative we need to prevent bureaucratization is not a soviet state, but the democratic republic" (Ibid, p.7). This is a really wild point for me. If bureaucratization would be *prevented* by a democratic republic, why did the 1936 Soviet constitution move towards the parlimentary model at the behest of the bureaucracy, as the bureaucracy was cementing itself? Furthermore, if the author thinks that a workers' state would take the form of a "democratic republic," what's the difference between this workers' democracy and bourgeois democracy? Unfortunately, the author leaves this remark there unexplained. 

# The transitional program today
Turning to a criticism of modern Trotskyist groups, the author says that they tend to have a fatalistic attitude about the demise of capitalism. He argues that they parrot Trotsky's analysis that capitalism is doomed to imminent revolution, even as the system proves captable of withstanding crisis after crisis (Ibid, p.7). I would say that this merely supports the notion that [[Capitalism has no final crisis]], and it doesn't disprove in any way the idea that [[Capitalism is in decline]]. 

Vliat turns to an argument that most Trotskyist groups don't even have a meaningful program at all, saying that in practice, this allows the leadership to take total control of the organization (Ibid, p.8). I agree that this would happen without the presence of a meaningful program, but I disagree with his characterization of the Dutch section of the [[IMT]] as such a group. If their section is like ours, they have collective political perspectives that are debated and voted on at their congressional sessions. The fact that this isn't what we put forward as our program is merely a syntactic difference. 

Vliat turns to an explicit criticism of the way that the [[IMT]] envisions party-building. The IMT, he continues, has a vision of the "theoretical sect" that will ride a wave of revolutionary energy to power without the hard work of building a party. He believes that for the IMT, this replaces any effort to recruit new people to the cause, or to win the existing workers' movement over to a socialist program, and attacks the IMT for "dogmatism, sectarianism, and a complete refusal to engage... with the existing workers movement" (Ibid, p.9). I can't speak for what they're doing over there, but that has nothing to do with the tactics that the IMT is conducting from my experience. 

> [!My conclusion]
> I think that, in conclusion, this article seems to attempt (at first) to honestly engage with the transitional program, but in the end it doesn't provide any positive content, and reveals multiple errors in analysis on the part of the author. He doesn't seem to know of any alternative, besides an abstract conception of "patient work" that apparently doesn't involve advocating for popular economic demands, but merely involves telling people that we ought to establish a workers' state.