# [[IMT]] Branch, 7-11-20
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
[[Trump]] pardons Roger Stone, in an obviously corrupt move to prevent someone convicted of lying to Congress in defense of the President from facing jail time. [[Trump]]’s decision to do this, when even Nixon thought that it would be suicidal to go that far, shows his confidence in the inability or the unwillingness of [[Democratic Party]] to fight back against him in any meaningful way.
    
[[COVID-19]] is coming back in a big way. Texas is at 85% ICU capacity, with cases skyrocketing. Florida and Georgia are similar. South Carolina is at 72% capacity. Arizona at 100% capacity.
 
## Political discussion -"Mini-Leadoffs"
- JM: COVID program 
	-   This is basically a modern transitional program. We want to link the current issues of today with the need for revolution.    
	-   Some would say that this program is beyond the [[class consciousness]] of most workers. That’s true! We aren't trying to reach every worker, we want the most advanced layers to come over to our side in the ones and twos.     
	-   We focus on working class unity, and working class independence.     

- RL: Black lives don’t matter to the capitalists
	-   Black people are dying at twice the rate due to COVID when compared to the general population. This is due in part to the kinds of jobs Black people tend to have.     he kinds of jobs Black people tend to have.     
	-   Health outcomes are also different between Black people and others. 70% of Black people live in highly polluted areas. 
    
- DM: How can WC end police terror? 
	-   1,600 cities saw demonstrations about police brutality during the [[June 2020 uprising]]. Calls have been made for defunding and abolishing the police, but organizations have failed to unify across the country, or base their support along class lines.     
	-   The defeat of the defund movement is due to a lack of political clarity. The police are one of the most essential aspects of the state. You might as well ask the government to abolish the military or the court system.     
	-   Communities have shown an organic ability to defend themselves through armed committees, but have failed to grow or make sure they’re accountable to all members of their communities.