# [[IMT]] Branch, 4-18-20
#meeting/political

---
# Current events
There’s a growing backlash to the stay-at-home measures which some online are interpreting as a [[petty bourgeoisie|petit bourgeois]] movement, but we should be careful not to blame workers who are trapped between poverty and going back to work. [[Trump]] has tried to position himself as not responsible for statewide measures, even tweeting that his supporters should “liberate” states that are under lockdown. 

The current downturn has shown the absurdity of basing production on profit instead of need. 

I read a Jacobin article talking about why we need to stay with [[Democratic Party]]. Their argument is that the DNC has an incentive to win elections, and therefore, by mobilizing a wide left base, we can entice the Dems to move left in order to win more elections. The labour party documents show that parties have goals beyond winning elections. Party leaders do have party identity, but above that they have a class [[class consciousness]]. 

# The Dog Days of the Left Opposition
This is an exerpt from [[The History of American Trotskyism (1945)]]. After their split from the CPUSA, the Trots didn't have any [[currency|money]] or following, but their tactical retreat is useful to study. 

As the [[Russia|USSR]] was manipulating the [[Comintern]], the Trotskyists were expelled from the [[CPUSA]]. The leadership of the [[Comintern]] was more interested in maintaining their control than any political program. Instead of turning against the CP, the Trots decided that their goal was to orient to the [[vanguard]] instead of the general population through propaganda. 

The Trots’ position on the [[Russia|USSR]] was that we should support reform through the Comintern and through the CP, and not abandon the Russian Revolution altogether. Many groups wanted to reject the [[Russia|USSR]] entirely, but those groups never really got any traction with anybody on the left and usually ended up siding with the [[bourgeoisie]]. 

The Trots argued against the Comintern’s position that the left should create “red unions” instead of working in existing unions. The LO argued that we should be a faction within the broader labor movement in order to gain access to a mass movement. This was the start of an shift towards [[ultraleftism]] by the USSR and Comintern which made it impossible for the Trots to hold any ground. The Trots had been outmaneuvered by the USSR who now were to the left of the Left Opposition.

As the Trots struggled, they were beset by many problems. Some ultra-Trotskyists tried to be “holier than thou” while the “lunatic fringe” was attracted to leftist movements. People lacking discipline would be kicked out of other parties, and would wind up at the Trots’ meeting because they thought the Trots were against [[democratic centralism]]. These tendencies should be resisted. 

This was a very bad historical moment to be on the left in the [[USA]]. Many organizations, upon losing their ground, were tempted towards [[opportunism]] and revisionism in order to cling to their receding power. This ended up dooming their movements. 

The Trots focused on pouring their limited money and manpower into a printing shop. They kept printing their ideas as their movement went into a state of hibernation until conditions for revolution improved. 

### Discussion
Politics as a form of warfare can be a useful metaphor. As in war, it is essential to know not only how to advance, but how to retreat without breaking ranks and being destroyed. 
 
 ```ad-question
Q (me): How important is maintaining a principled org during the bad times? As we saw, this org eventually fell, but has been replaced by other orgs. Can the ideas of authentic [[marxism]] spread on their own?

A: Marxism is a system of thinking, so the ideas of Marx can continue or be rediscovered. We should still seek to consolidate and spread the authentic ideas so that we don't have to start from zero when conditions improve. - Abadie

A: Trotsky said that bad times lower the general ideological level of the movement. During this, the vanguard mustn't be carried backward. It must retain its ideological positions or else waste the hard-won lessons of the past. - Bryce

---
Q (DM): Why has our org not oriented towards other left groups when this article is talking about how past Trots have done so? What is different in our situation?

A: Our situation is different because there was a significant layer of the working class who were around the Communist Party. We no longer have any [[mass organizations]].
```

We orient towards student work and [[cadre]] building at this time, but we shouldn't make this a fetish, we should be willing to change tactics on a dime if the situation calls for it. 

We don't consider ourselves a Party, merely a tendency. 

We should not try to solve political problems through organizational means. We cannot take shortcuts. 

Tactical questions that are important: orient towards the masses or the vanguard? 

Propagandizing: sharing lots of ideas to advanced layers. Agitation: sharing slogans and small ideas to a wide layer. 

Quantity is less important than quality for the nucleus of an organization. Without a strong foundation, any growth will fail to advance the cause. 

We view ourselves as the [[vanguard]] of the vanguard. The movement will grow on the basis of events, not our willpower or abilities.

My overall takeaway is that my understanding of our goal is more advanced than my understanding of political tactics. 

I should read “Will there be a slump?” by [[Ted Grant]]. It’s about the reasons for a postwar boom after [[WW2]]. 

[Reading on the eventual degeneration of the SWP](https://www.marxist.com/the-theoretical-origins-of-the-degeneration-of-the-fourth-interview-with-ted-grant.htm)

We are in a good position. [[reformism]] doesn't have a material basis right now, and [[Stalinism]] isn’t a global force. We will hopefully be overwhelmed not by our coming isolation, but by the number of opportunities available to us. 

## Contact work / branch activities
We could start a 3rd reading group on “Bolshevism: The Road to Revolution.” We have a lot of free time, so we might as well, seeing as we aren't really doing anything else. 

Bryce, Abadie, and [[Jacob]] will be leaving in the next few months. Bryce is press officer, Abadie is treasurer. 

I should really read the Transitional Program. It’s more essential than Imperialism at this stage.

## Fighting Fund
The national treasurer sent an email this week talking about the fighting fund. We are gonna structure it as a series of smaller contributions. We are encouraged to donate a portion of our stimulus money. 

Our org has seen a spike in interest after Bernie dropped out. 

Many will have to decrease their contributions, and those that can afford to increase theirs ought to do so.