# [[IMT]] Branch, 6-20-20
#meeting/political 

---
## Current Events
Longshoremen's union strike shuts down all west coast ports in support of Black Lives Matter. 

The [[stock market]] has become totally divorced from economic realities. The real unemployment rate is around 20% while [[stock]] indices are rising week after week

Confederate statues have been toppled across the country. 

## My Leadoff on “[What is Stalinism?](https://socialistrevolution.org/what-is-stalinism/#top)”
This article is arranged in a question-and-answer format, covering a few basic questions someone might have about [[Stalinism]]. These questions are pretty basic, but they cover the main points of what [[Stalinism]] is, and why we disagree with it.    

The first question covered by the article is, “why is [[socialism]] in one country impossible?” [[Lenin]] talked at length about how socialism had to be an international movement in order to succeed during the [[Russia|Russian Revolution]]. The lowest stage of [[socialism]] can only be achieved after the highest stage of [[capitalism]] has been achieved globally. In order to democratically run the economy of the world, the productive forces have to be really concentrated, and have to be really powerful. If they aren’t, how could we expect to democratically manage an economy for the benefit of all when there genuinely isn't enough to go around? Lenin and [[Bolsheviks]] never wanted to establish socialism or [[communism]] in Russia independently. They thought that the Russian Revolution would spark a series of revolutions across Europe, and after these revolutions, the more economically advanced countries would be able to help Russia industrialize and catch up with Western Europe. We did see this begin to happen. For example, a wave of strikes swept across Eastern Europe after the revolution when many countries sent troops to attack the USSR, and one of the reasons these attacks were pulled back was that workers in the West were moving too close to open revolution in the spirit of the recent Russian one. Unfortunately, none of the advanced capitalist countries saw a successful revolution, most importantly [[Germany]]. This meant that Russia was alone in the world, and it’s easy for me to imagine why the ideological line of ‘socialism in one country’ emerged. It still doesn’t hold water though, and it really doesn’t make sense for it working in a country like [[Russia]] at that time. It would even be difficult for the [[USA|United States]] to establish socialism nationally, much less Russia in 1917. There just isn’t enough productive power to allow for a surplus of goods. Any capitalist country would struggle to survive if cut off from the international community, so it should be no surprise that ‘socialism in one country’ wouldn’t be that great of an arrangement to have. 
    
The next question is, “Why did Russia degenerate into a totalitarian, Stalinist dictatorship, and how does the [[economic planning|planned economy]] work to develop the productive forces without the “check” of the market?” Even though we critique the USSR, we still think the October Revolution was a great event, and the USSR did better economically than it would have as a colonized capitalist country. The [[IMT]] would say that the reason that the USSR and other states like it stagnated and collapsed was that there wasn’t any democratic control of the economy. In capitalism, there’s a very crude mechanism for preventing stagnation in some parts of the economy, competition between firms. We could talk all day about how this mechanism isn't good enough, but it's better than nothing. And since the USSR didn't replace this mechanism with genuine democratic control of resources, there was no incentive for managers to produce quality products, or for central planners to care that much about the interests of the workers. Instead, there was a lot of inefficiency and waste. 
    
As for why Russia degenerated this way, the IMT’s perspective is that in the aftermath of the devastating civil war, there wasn’t enough material abundance to shorten the working day to allow for lots of people to participate in the frequent democratic meetings that workers’ democracy requires. Also, the working class was sort of disintegrating back into the peasantry, and wartime needs meant that more centralization was needed. This led to people relying a lot on bureaucrats, who cemented their power in the system more and more. Many of the advanced workers had been killed in the civil war, and didn’t have the strength to prevent this pattern from continuing. Marx said that the working class couldn’t simply lay hold of the ready-made state machinery and use it for its own interests, and Lenin said that the working class needs to smash the capitalist state machinery and build a temporary state to serve its own interests. 
    
The third question turns to [[Mao]] and the Chinese Revolution. The IMT’s perspective is that the Chinese Revolution was also a great event, but was a very different revolution from Russia’s. The working class really wasn't a part of it, and it was led by peasants instead. Mao intended to have this peasant revolution usher in a capitalist stage, but he found that this was impossible. Instead, he was forced to begin a policy of proletarian bonapartism. This is where the ruling clique plays off the bourgeoisie and the working class against one another, hoping to maintain balance. 
    
The article also asks if [[China]] today is communist or capitalist. Since the death of Mao, the [[CPC|Chinese Communist Party]] has been moving the country towards capitalism, in a careful way. They saw the disaster of the way this was done in the USSR, and have done a much better job maintaining control of the country while making these moves towards capitalism. They’ve done this by establishing specific zones where capitalism can take root in a controlled and slow way. It’s difficult to say at which precise point the development of ‘special economic zones’ caused the economy to become capitalist, but it is obvious that China today is subject to a lot of the same economic forces that capitalist countries have. China has billionaires, it has a stock market, and it has a lot of private enterprise. While the working class in the Soviet Union only had to perform a political overthrow of the bureaucracy, the working class in China must now execute a political revolution as well as a social revolution if they want to get back on the right track. 
    
I think it’s really important to have a cohesive political outlook, and an understanding of history. If we can’t critique past attempts at socialist revolution, we will be blind to all the lessons that the people who participated in those attempts either learned, or didn’t learn. I’m looking forward to hearing everyone's thoughts on this topic! 
    
Political clarity is important. It’s our job as members of a principled Marxist organization to be ready and able to provide a clear outlook and answers to the questions that will arise as the situation in the US becomes more revolutionary. One of those questions will be about the way we relate to past attempts at socialist revolution. We walk a fine line with this question. We don’t reject the gains of the October Revolution or the Chinese Revolution, but we also don't support these governments uncritically like some on the left do. Even though this level of nuance might not be as satisfying as totally rejecting or totally supporting these states might seem, it’s the correct position. We have to recognize that these attempts at socialism were a great step in the right direction for humanity, but they didn't succeed. If we want to succeed, we have to be really clear about why the USSR degenerated, and why China has returned to capitalism. Marxist theory is fundamentally an effort to understand how and why the world changes, and how to change it. If we ignore or misrepresent the real way that the world changes, and the real history of the socialist movement (even the failures) we aren't authentic Marxists, and that’s why we reject Stalinism. Stalinists close their eyes to the fundamental failures of the Soviet Union and China, clinging to the idea that these places were authentic workers states. If we want to build an actually authentic workers state, we can't make the same mistake. 
    
Wrap up: It would be really comforting to believe that the USSR, China, [[Cuba]], and others are authentic examples of socialism, and that billions are living under socialism today. But this isn't a scientific position, and it isn't a Marxist one. We have to have a clear analysis of the issues with these states, and we should look to Lenin and State and Revolution to see clearly that the Soviet Union and China are not examples of authentic dictatorships of the [[proletariat]]. We can see this from Lenin’s four conditions: election and immediate recall of all officials, payment of workers [[wages]] to elected officials, an arming of the people instead of a general army, and the participation of everyone in the business of running the economy. We can see that neither the Soviet Union, nor China fit even one of these conditions. The successes of these countries are important, because they show the superiority of the [[economic planning|planned economy]], but a [[economic planning|planned economy]] with workers’ democracy would blow their achievements out of the water. Some might say that focusing on historical questions is sectarian or divisive, but our outlook on these issues reveal big differences in theory between us and Stalinists, and are important to really understand if we want to build a strong [[cadre]] organization that has the ability to answer the questions that will be posed in the coming period. 
    
### Organizational Point
There's an archive of minutes on Google Drive. This is also where we keep track of contacts. Check-ins are a good way to keep up-to-date on who we’re meeting with and how everything is going. 
 
### Any Other Business
The national school is next weekend! I should register... Our branch next weekend will be cancelled. Next branch is July 5th at 1pm. 