# [[IMT]] Branch, 11-21-20
#meeting/political 

---
## News updates
Failure of [[reformism]] shown by shitty tax on CEOs of 0.1% for every 100x their salary is over the median worker. Protests in Thailand have rocked the monarchy. COVID is spiking in the US. Ethiopia has been using their military to supress unrest in one of their provinces. Maduro is turning the state apparatus against left wing organizations in [[Venezuela]]. 

## Discussion on "Fascism: What It Is and How To Fight It"
*See notes on [[Fascism What It Is and How To Fight It (1944)]]*

My points
- i didnt initially see the need to point out how [[Trump]] wasn't a fascist
	- marxists must be correct to win support
	- a bad definition of fascism confuses people since [[Trump]] was voted out
	- covering for normal bourgeois society (i talked to Refuse Fascism)
- analysis of petit bourgois and the BLM movement
	- shows revolutionary potential of petit bourgeois as a rear-guard
	- eventually sought a return to normalcy, sued city for CHOP
- essential features of fascism
	- imminent revolution / recent failed revolution
	- total destruction of the workers' organization

Vyom asks what fascism is, and would we characterize the Proud Boys as fascists? Jeff asks if there is an example of fascism being defeated? My answer: the Russian revolution is an example. As for the proud boys, they don't have so much connection to the petit bourgeois, although many of them have that social background. 

## Personal updates
Jeff will be busier in the next few months as he retrains. Vyom is still busy in med school. Krissy will be very busy in the new year. 

## National event reflection
See my notes on [[2020-11-14 national school]]. 

As of today, we have 322 members nationally, with 142 joining this year.