# [[IMT]] Central Committee meeting, 12-12-20
#meeting/political 

---
The CC has been expanded because this meeting is really setting the tone of the organization as we move forward into 2021. 

## World Perspectives (led off by Fred Weston)
We are facing the worst crisis since the 1930s, and the crisis could still deepen. Unemployment, falls in [[GDP]], increases in poverty have caused massive problems. 

[[China]], once the engine of the world economy, is turning into a crisis point itself. 

In such an unstable system, any 'accidental' crisis can cause the world to tip into chaos. That's exactly what happened with COVID. Of course the bourgeois analysts try to paint each crisis as a unique event based on the situation. But we know that for a crisis to happen, conditions must be present that allow for events to shake the pillars of society. 

[[capitalism]] is at such a point because of the accumulation of its [[contradiction|contradictions]]. [[credit]], overproduction, and other factors have reached a critical point. Of course, [[COVID-19]] was an important factor, but it has only worsened a terrible situation. 

The Financial Times proclaims that free markets must be protected through COVID-19. This is an admission that the market system needs external support by the state to survive through crisis. Far from the pushing of privatization up until now, [[capitalism]] is now at its limits. [[state]] is encouraged to step in to save the system. The FT even mentions communist revolution as part of the article. 

World trade is expected to fall 9.2% this year, and we will see if their 7% rebound in 2021 will appear. Global GDP will fall by 5%, with an expected rebound of 5% in 2021. This all depends on the vaccine and the end of COVID-19. 

The speculation in the [[stock market]] due to vaccine development has been intense. The issue is the mountain of debt, which could produce 1.4 trillion euro of 'non-performing loans.' This acts as a break on investment and productivity, as more and more [[capital]] is being put towards repayment of debt. 

Global [[credit]] is at 331% of global GDP. Chinese debt stands at 335% of their GDP this year, increasing by 16% in a single quarter. 

There's no such thing as a permanent crisis. But the point is not if there will be a recovery, but the overall health of the capitalist economy. Even the FT admits that permanent economic scars will cause the state to need austerity in the coming period. We can't just go back to pre-2020 capitalism anytime soon.

The global capitalist class will be compelled to reduce debt somehow in the coming period. This will cause the collapse of many so-called 'zombie companies' in the US which cannot afford to service the interest on their debt, much less reduce it. However, the IMF and others have said that they don't intend to reduce debt in the short term due to the risk of a contraction. However long they delay the cuts, the more intense the cuts will be. 

These conditions are causing an upswing in the workers' movement. Even in [[USA|America]], the heart of the capitalist world, has seen the burning of police stations and massive discontent. All across the world, the working class is looking for a way out. 

### The [[UK]]
The right wing is much more decisive than the left [[reformism|reformists]] inside the Labour Party. Corbyn refused to purge the party, but as soon as the right got an opportunity, they went in with full force.

Brexit has the possibility of triggering a massive slowdown in Europe, which would crash the world economy again. The likelihood of a 'no-deal' scenario is growing ever-more likely. This would be 2 or 3 times worse than the COVID crash. The [[UK]] could lose a huge GDP percentage along with its exports. 500,000 jobs are on the chopping block, and 700,000 more in Europe, particularly in [[Germany]]. This is why Germany has advocated hard for a deal to be made. 

In Scotland, if another independence referendum was held, the people would declare independence by a large margin. The crisis has really brought the possibility of a breakup of the Union onto the table. 

We now have 580 comrades here, recruiting at the rate of one a day!

### Central and South America
The Guatemalan parliament has been burned by protestors. In Peru, the ruling party has been forced out. These events are repeated in many countries in the region.

### [[China]]
This is the only major capitalist country to have recovered from the crash. It will close the year with a 2% increase in GDP overall. This is actually a disaster because the Chinese economy is used to so much more growth than that. Their economy is also leaning more and more on exports, which is destabilizing. 

The Chinese economy has transitioned to a plan of producing more, to being more productive. They now seek to produce more with the same resources, because they are bumping up against limits in expansion. 

There is a process taking place in China where the working class is raising its head, slowly but surely. 

### [[Russia]]
The recovery won't make up for the decline. This is decreasing the popularity of Putin, which may have gone as low as 37% by this point. The economy was stagnating even before the crash. Incomes are falling, living costs are rising. Russia is being pushed closer and closer to China, both in terms of economics and a political alliance. 

There is a crisis in the Russian Communist Party between the right and the left. We have some comrades within the CP there who are running discussion groups, as well as other groups of comrades outside the party.

### Right-wing Leadership
The rightists that have taken the helm across the world represent a failure of the ruling class to keep a tight grip on their usual levers of control. Their rise does not represent a [[fascism|fascist]] upsurge. Bolsonaro is so unpopular that he can't even form his own party. We have seen the troops that [[Trump]] has on his side.

### [[India]]
250 million are on a general strike, the largest one in history. Far from the nationalist rhetoric of Modi, here we can see the real situation of the masses. We have a toe-hold there, but we will not have an impact on the movement.

Our contacts there are forming the beginnings of a section, but need theoretical education. 

### [[Japan]]
After WW2, the US was forced to help the bourgeoisie to rebuild in order to stave off revolution. Many members of the working class were promised a job for life, with decent pensions. This has now come to an end. In the 70s, Japan was predicted to overtake the US, but instead Japan stagnated. This was because of the internal [[contradiction|contradictions]] of Japanese capitalism. Under this stagnation, workers' rights have been eroded. Now, 70% of Japanese workers are considered disposable, and have no access to pensions or retirement options. 

The only thing standing in the way of the Japanese workers' movement is the lack of a subjective factor. There is no revolutionary leadership of the working class as of this moment. 

### [[Italy]]
The pandemic really took a toll on the elderly population of Italy. This was entirely due to the unwillingness of the capitalists to stop making profits in the face of mass death. Just like in other locations, the [[contradiction|contradictions]] are intensifying. The material factor is firmly in place for a workers' revoluion, and the [[class consciousness]] of the workers is rapidly shifting left, looking for a real leadership out of the crisis. 

### [[Iran]]
In October, there were the largest number of strikes since the 1979 revolution. The workers at the forefront were the energy, transport, and agro sectors. 

With 250,000 engaged in strike action, we can see that the working class is really starting to butt heads with the regime, both in terms of economic and political demands. 

### [[Venezuela]]
21 new members of the IMT have been voted in in recent months, doubling the organization's size. This is a critical country to be organizing in. 

### The rest of the world
From Lebannon, to Iran, to [[South Africa]], we can see these same problems repeated again and again. Even worse than the 'normal' problems, the scourge of war and conflict rages across the world as well. The Middle East, Africa, and southeast Asia heve been terrorized by warfare and internal strife. 

We have significant development of many new sections that are coming towards the IMT. Bangladesh, [[India]], [[Indonesia]], Ireland, and [[Germany]], [[Norway]], Switzerland, Austria, [[Italy]], and other national sections have reported significant growth. 

We have around 10 in Israel, cutting across the ethnic divide between Jews and Palestinians. 

### The state of the left
These problems are not only explained by capitalism, but also the weakness of the left globally. Left organizations across the world have grown, but have failed to really take advantage of the situation. This is because of the unimaginative and misguided leadership in these organizations. These leaders are terrified of entering into direct conflict with the ruling class.

The world has been proletarianized to an extreme. The balance of forces every day lean more and more towards the working class globally. The ruling class now has to reckon with this question, but luckily for them this class is not yet conscious of its position or power. 

For them, the answer is to support the moderate leaders of the working class. They see that the perspective for fascism is too impossible to support the fascists. Instead, they settle for raising the profiles of people like Starmer in the UK, in order to hold back the movement as long as they can. 

This tension builiding up in society cannot be held back forever. The capitalists and their media know this. Articles discussing the fall of capitalism are no longer hard to find. 

### The Coming Period
We will see massive swings in the coming period. Every extreme tendency will increase in prominance, both on the left and the right. If we work properly, we can rapidly build the forces of Marxism. By building the revolutionary organization, we can fill in the missing gap between the needs of the masses and the genuine path forward given to us through the study of Marxism. 

We are truly in a pre-revolutionary situation globally. Unfortunately, this has been slowed by the [[reformism|reformists]] who always hand power back to [[capital]] whenever they grab hold of it. 

This hasn't even taken [[climate change]] into account. That is another factor that will force the world into crisis, as the global working class realizes that it has no need for the rich, who pollute far more than the rest of society. 

Historians take the stable postwar period as the norm, when actually it is the exception under capitalism. From the beginning of capitalism, crisis after crisis has beset the system on all sides, and we are again moving back to the norm of constant turmoil.

### Our Role
It is our job to develop the subjective factor in the working class movement. We have to help provide the historical memory of the movement. All the issues facing the movement have been posed to the movement before, with failures and sucesses against all of them. 

In the next 20 years or so, the question of who ought to own society WILL be posed globally. We have to combat the American tendency of isolationism, and link this global struggle to the struggle of American workers. 

Our International Center is also growing the number of full-timers. 

## American Perspectives (led off by Antonio Balmer)
2020 seems like a year of unexpected crisis, but each crisis has had ten or twenty years of preparation behind it. 

In 2017, 33% of Americans predicted a civil war. That number is most likely higher now. 

The pandemic was really just the spark that lit the kindling provided by capitalism for decades. The bourgois media would love to have us think that each event this year has been disconnected. The pandemic is disconnected from the processes of capitalism, and the BLM protests are disconnected from COVID-19. We know this to be false. 

The labor participation rate has declined over time in the US. These are people who could be working but have totally given up on finding a job. As of April, only 51.3% of the adults in the US are working. There are 10 million fewer jobs than there were in March. 

In a few weeks, the CDC moratorium on evictions will be lifted, ushering in a tidal wave of suffering. 30-40 million are at risk of eviction. 

For a while now, the Pentagon has been reviewing its strategies for dealing with civil unrest.

### The State of the Workers' Movement
Workers have mobilized at a level that we haven't seen in the US in my lifetime. This has truly been a record year in terms of strikes. All this has been despite, not because of, the leadership of the unions. 

If the leaders had actually pushed workers to strike and make demands, we would be seeing a much more prominent turnout. Instead, the [[unions|union]] tops are firmly in the pocket of [[Democratic Party]]. 

### Shape of the Working Class
2/3 of American workers have some sort of college education. This means that student debt relief is truly a working class demand, despite what the bourgeois press claims. 

The consciousness of the working class is increasing rapidly. The public is moving left faster and faster under the pressure of events. 

- 71% feel angry about the state of the country
- 87% are dissatisfied with the way things are going
- 71% of those under 34 support unions
- 75% think capitalism is not benefiting society
- 27% said no form of capitalism could improve society
- 65% think that the rich achieved their position due to unfair advantages

### The BLM uprising
This was the most important movement in the United States' history. 10% of the US engaged in protest, and 54% supported the burning of the police precinct in Minneapolis.

The only factor that was missing for a true insurrection was the subjective factor. The leadership of the movement was confused, and was re-directed into channels that were either innefective, or safe for the ruling class. 

If the IMT had the skeletal structure in place across the country, it could have been our program spreading like wildfire in the way that 'defund the police' did. 

### Electoral Politics
The rise of Sanders and [[Trump]] represented the polarization of society. In 2020, there was a potential for a showdown between those two forces, but that conflict was averted through a combined effort of the Democratic establishment. Despite coming in fourth in Iowa, [[Biden]] was the chosen representative of the Democratic elites and their donors. After winning a single race, he was coronated as six other candidates dropped out before Super Tuesday to support [[Biden]]. 

In the end, Sanders won 10 million votes before capitulating. His declaration of support of [[Biden]] was seen as a deep betrayal of his supporters. This caused a large portion of his supporters to continue their movement left past his movement. 

# Central Committee Meeting on 12.13.20
## The road to 1,000: 2020 organizational recap & 2021 organizational perspectives
The goal is to be deliberate and to manage people's skillsets. It's also important to keep information flowing in both directions throughout the organization.  

We have started building the layer between branches and the national center using Area Committees. The balance here is to not fall into regionalism, and make sure that each AC is tightly connected to the National Center. 

The NC has gone from 5 to 10 full-timers this year. This is a great step forward for the organization. The criteria for a full-timer is a political level of course, but also work ethic and teamwork. 

As long as we keep building on a sound foundation of the political factor, we will be able to overcome the organizational questions. 

### The bookstore
Book sales and income from the bookstore are both up this year. We made nearly $30,000 from Marxist Books in 2020. 

### Contact work
Hubspot is being used in the National Center and a few branches.

### Security
We have an InfoSec team. The role of this team will expand. Secure content storage solutions are incoming. This software will also act as a members portal for streamlining the resources sent to each comrade. 

### The National Congress
It's been rescheduled for next year, Memorial Day weekend in Pittsburgh. We aim to hold it in person in May. 

### Expanding the CC and EC
The EC only has 5, and this number should be increased. 

### Stats in 2020
- Website visits have tripled compared to 2019. 
- 108,000 unique visitors in 2020, for a total of 320,000 pageviews. 
- 32% of the pageviews came from social media posts. 
- Overall, interactions across all platforms are up significantly from last year. 

## The road to 1,000: 2020 organizational recap & 2021 organizational perspectives
This decade will make or break the IMT and the world revolution, a lot of weight on our shoulders. Accountability, handling political differences, flow of info from bottom to top, all are intentional processes.
- More focus from Bourg media, mostly negative. Must be sharper if we are going to handle this pressure 
- Be careful to not to dilute political content
### Recruitment
Now we're at 330 members. This has exceeded our goal of 300 by June of 2021! This amounts to 64.2% growth this year. 48% of new contacts came from online, while 31% were personal contacts. 

Our retention rate for comrades is 89%. The best method for reducing drop-off is persistent follow up for new members and keeping an eye on drifting comrades. 

### Leadership
Political leadership derives from political clarity and legitimacy. It only exists if those 'below you' believe in your authority and trust you. Leadership is a key component of [[cadre]], and we need to be developing not only cadre and not only teams, but teams of cadre that will allow for the quick expansion of the organization under the right conditions. 

### Press
*Socialist Revolution* released 7 issues this year, compared to the usual 8. This is not that bad considering the situation nationwide! The paper now has 694 subscribers, and is bringing in $4,500 in subscriptions. 

### Finances
The average monthly dues payment is now $50, up from $47 last year. The at-large average is now $26, up from $22 last year. 

### Bookstore
Marxist Books brought in $32,000 this year. This is up by 27%!

### The Central Committee
The CC will need to be expanded to around 500-1000 in the coming period. 

### Consolidation
We should pursue active interventions, maintaining our principled positions and implementing the same kinds of professional methods that we bringto other work. 

## Raising our ideas and intervening in other formations
We must always rely on our penetrating analysis, instead of leaning on bombastic or fiery language that is really meaningless. We are intervening to not only directly win people over, but also to spread our ideas more generally. This means that we can't write people off - they may later come over to our view. 

We also have to be careful about how we talk about other organizations. We don't want to cut ourself off from large organizations like [[DSA]], but we also want to openly raise our criticisms. We can do this by being respectful and keeping our disagreements political in nature. 

We also have to understand the kinds of attacks our organization may recieve. A big one is the accusation of [[entryism]]. We should point out that we are not dissolving into any other organization, and we aren't trying to take over any other organization. The people who make these kinds of arguments are just scared because our ideas are influencing their members, because our ideas are correct. 

As for [[democratic centralism]], this is often degraded as a form of control of the leaders over the membership. On the contrary, it is a method used by the membership to keep leaders accountable. Members are not controlled by the IMT in any way, they are free to leave the organization, we won't stop them!

The [[CPUSA]] - we have a good relationship with them in Boston, we should have a friendly approach to them like we do with other organizations.

Movement for a Peoples' Party - very idealistic, no clear class struggle approach. However, they are attempting to fill a void that certainly exists, so we will follow their development closely. 

[[Socialist Alternative]] - we should support Kshama against the [[Seattle]] right, but we should do this in order to build connections with the working class and the broader left, not other members of SAlt. 

In general, we shouldn't try to recruit from other sectarian organizations, we should keep our orientation towards the working class as they move left. 

[[DSA]] - this is a big one, as DSA hits 80,000 members on the books. Various branches have different degrees of interaction with their local DSA. In Boston, the IMT is hosting a reading group affiliated with the DSA, which acts as a steady stream of contacts. MPLS is beginning to think about approaching DSA as well. 