# [[IMT]] Branch, April 4th, 2020
#meeting/political

---
## News updates
The conservative choice for [[Labour Party (UK)]] leader won with 53% in the first round. This shows a consolidation of the right-wing of the Labour party. The struggle within the party will likely intensify, which may be good for the growth of the IMT there but is negative for the party overall.

Unemployment is skyrocketing at an insane rate. 2 weeks ago, there were 3.3 million layoffs. Last week there were 6 million more.

Amazon workers are beginning to organize slowly. 

# My leadoff on the Great Depression
Thesis: to understand our current crisis and where it might lead, we ought to look to the largest crisis of capitalism in our history. There are similarities and important differences between these two situations, particularly in the state response to crisis.

## Background on the Great Depression

Sparked by Black Tuesday, on Oct 24th, 1929. Market lost 11% at the opening bell, compared to 12% on the worst day of the current crisis.

Circular relationship between economy and [[stock market]]

Industrial production was dropping, and agriculture was relying on unsustainable demand from WW1 combatant nations. 

Industrial production halved and unemployment tripled between 1929 and ‘32.

## State response to the great depression

Hoover did nothing to address the crisis and has largely been forgotten by history

FDR took office in 1933 at the depth of the crisis. His aim was to protect capitalism by offering moderate reforms to workers. 

The New Deal provided just enough to keep workers alive, and only covered about 25% of the jobless, but it allowed the system to keep grinding along. 

FDR decreased overproduction of agricultural goods by destroying them, at a time of widespread hunger and poverty.

Even this arrangement was distasteful to the [[bourgeoisie]], who pressured FDR to make cuts to public spending. In ‘37, FDR scrapped many relief programs, sending hundreds of thousands back into poverty. This caused a new recession that was only ended by [[WW2]].  

There were still 10 million unemployed by the start of the war, and it was this war’s stimulation of production that really saved [[capitalism]]. 

## Comparison to the current crisis
The state is acting more strongly and swifter than during the Depression. 0% interest rates for banks, at least $16 trillion pumped into the stock market to keep people trading. This amounts to $49,000 per US citizen.

However, the intense growth of the deficit will make the next crisis even more difficult to escape from. A similar approach to overproduction is taking shape, with dairy farms dumping 25,000 gallons of milk per day down the drain to prop up prices. As our crisis has been triggered by [[COVID-19]], there is less of an opportunity for collective action. However, we may find that the depths of the crisis may not be the time to mobilize anyway.

## Changes in [[class consciousness]]
While increases in exploitation certainly cause many to question the system, they do not necessarily motivate workers to fight. Trotsky points out that this was not the case in the 20's in the [[UK]], nor in [[Russia]] during their 1907 industrial crisis. A time of hardship can demoralize and atomize the working class. 

As always, the leadership of the working class sets the course. In the UK, trade union leadership sold out the workers. Turning to the political scene, they elected a Labour government that failed to increase the standard of living, and was then crushed in the polls. 
In the [[USA]], high unemployment created a large “reserve army of [[capital]]” which could be used to discourage strikes. 

However, near the end of the crisis, many workers saw a chance to fight back. Feeling a little more secure, their anger at the system boiled over into large strike waves that swept the US and many other countries. Strikes in the US tripled in 10 years, from 10,000 in the 20s and early 30s, to 35,000 from 36-45. 

This demonstrates that while the depths of depression does raise the class [[class consciousness]] of the working class, workers must feel a degree of security to be brave enough to fight. 

## Lessons for today
I have seen this trend in my own conversations. I ordered pizza the other day, and I talked to a worker about their working conditions. He expressed interest in going on strike, but said that he couldn’t afford to be out of work in the middle of a crisis, so he was too scared to organize. There are probably millions of people like him in the US today, and it will be interesting to see what events unfold as the working class regains its footing after the worst of this crisis. 

We are seeing an upswing in [[class consciousness]], with GE workers demanding to be put to work creating ventilators, and retailers and food delivery workers going on strike. However, if this crisis follows the path of the Depression, we will see the most intense movement of the working class on the tail-end of this crisis, as the anger of the working class overwhelms peoples’ fear of losing what they have. 
Regardless of when the perfect time to strike is, it is essential that we continue to aggressively maintain and expand our organization, and be ready for whatever happens next.

## Discussion
FDR’s mindset pre-Depression was one of conservatism. He did not set out to be a reformer, he was forced to defend capitalism.

The situation we’re in is pretty unprecedented. Our debt has increased x100 since 2008, and the main response to the crisis so far has been even more debt, and making credit even cheaper. Credit is becoming the real [[currency]] of our economy. We’re betting on bets at this point. Even [[currency]] is really a bet, as it isn’t backed by anything of static [[value]]. Underlying all this is the lack of wage growth since the 70s. Within capitalism, a strong growth of wages could set us on a healthier track, but capitalists refuse to even save their own system in the face of crisis. 

This crisis shows the true power of the working class and the parasitism of the ruling class. Who is “essential” in this crisis? Not CEOs or investors, but workers. All the infrastructure to produce goods still exists, but the capitalists are no longer willing to let the workers create the goods that everyone needs! A [[economic planning|planned economy]] wouldn't be subject to such a crisis. 

This crisis also shows the new dynamic of the parties with [[Democratic Party]] saying that the remedy is to open the ACA exchanges and [[Trump]] announcing a more inclusive plan of federal payment to hospitals. 

The Depression was ended by WW2. There is no candidate for an event to end this current crisis. Perhaps climate change destroying productive forces and opening up new land for habitation and resource extraction.

The real cause of the great depression was capitalism. Capitalists must underpay workers to make profits. This increases supply, but decreases demand because workers cannot afford the products they create. This creates a crisis of oversupply, just as it is doing today. 

**Sum up:** In this crisis, we should make sure to use Marxist methods of analysis to examine historical examples of crisis, but to make sure to steer clear of dogmatism and a static view of how this crisis will develop. There are multiple unique and unprecedented factors in this crisis, including our debt burden and COVID-19 forcing this disturbance more suddenly upon our economy. In the long run, the capitalist system is incapable of permanently solving this crisis, and is incapable of preventing future crises. In times like these, the need for a rationally and democratically [[economic planning|planned economy]] is impossible to ignore, and in the near future, many throughout the working class will be more and more open to these ideas. We need to be ready and prepared to answer these kinds of questions in the near future, and I’m glad that we haven’t allowed this disturbance to interfere with the majority of our branch operations. This coming period will be one of change, and I hope that we will be ready for it.