# [[IMT]] Branch, 12-5-20
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- UK COVID vaccine released, 
- [[Biden]] transition team packing in defense advisors, former weapons industry lobbyists, and other representatives of the ruling class. 
	- His proposal of relieving 10k of student debt (only for some Americans, in non-federal loans) shows the total lack of a progressive agenda for the admin. 
	- Only 1/3 of average student loan debt.
	- This period of a new admin is usually the most optimistic section, before a compromise is worked towards. 
- Vaccines are supposed to be distributed to the most at-risk first, however Wall st executives and workers in the finance sector will get the vaccine sooner than other Americans!

250 million workers on strike in India against agricultural laws. They are led through the trade unions, but have a set end-date which removes their political impact. There's no revolutionary leadership or long-term strategy. 

## Discussion: [IEC Bulletin "On the Current Situation"](https://imt-bham.slack.com/files/UTGSMQFR6/F01FHVC9E3G/20200912_-_iec_-_on_the_current_situation.pdf)
This is an IEC document on our global 2020 perspectives, written in November. This document makes clear our use of the Marxist method to make sense of the world today, not only the world of the past which Marx, Engles, Lenin, and Trotsky wrote about. 

Our use of this method gives us an adantage over the bourgeois theorists and mainstream pundits. We are able to predict what will generallyhappen, because we are using a dialectical materialist method. 

Human [[class consciousness]] is inherently conservative, and requires the 'hammer blow' of events to shift it quickly. 2020 has brought such events, and we can expect to see a rapid change in consciousness because of this crisis. Workers have seen firsthand the cynicism and carelessness of the ruling class, and the disregard with which the ruling class throws the lives of workers away for profit. 

The amount of [[credit]] that the economy is running with is truly getting insane. 

What can we do in the face of this crisis? We cannot and should not spend our resources trying to mitigate these problems, because they are ultimatley caused by capitalism. The only way to 'reduce harm' is to have a revolution and abolish private control of [[capital]]. 

We're living through the ending of a whole period of capitalism that started in the 1950s, an upswing of capitalism. This upswing ended when the bubble that began in the 90s with credit began to burst, and the upswing isn't coming back within our lifetimes. 

The next period will be a contraction of capitalism, and a global downturn of living standards that will cause millions and millions of people to rise and directly challenge capitalism. The need for an actual organization of the working class has been shown by the George Floyd uprising, and will be shown time and time again as the struggle becomes more and more open and visible. 

Overall, capitalism has just shown itself to be totally inept at managing the global economy, and managing human development in general. 

## Personal Updates
Mark talked about his movement across the political spectrum towards leftism, and his hesitation to dive down the rabbit hole of Marxism based on how far down it goes. 

Aadil talked about his experience in [[Pakistan]] this week. He saw how Pakistanis had been through so much more crisis and more failures of institutions. Pakistanis really are used to the failures of the government and rely more on their communities. 

## Pre-Break Check-in
In August, there were six members in the whole of Washington. Now, there are 12 on this branch call alone, with a member absent! This shows the professionalism and high political level we've maintained through COVID, which we should be proud of. 

Going into the new year, we should all be proud of the work we've made, and be prepared for another period of growth as the crisis intensifies.

## AOB
We planned the schedule for political discussions and organizational points. 
