# [[IMT]] Branch, 5-28-20
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
-   The Bernie campaign has told representatives to sign agreements saying that they won’t criticize other candidates or [[Democratic Party|Dem]] leaders until the convention. This is another demonstration that the Bernie campaign doesn’t have the courage or the leverage to really challenge the Democratic establishment, even in words. This places the Bernie movement in an even worse bargaining position for the Democratic National Convention than they were last election. 
-   Even as the global [[bourgeoisie]] pushes for a vaccine, they have prevented the WHO from including language in a proposition that would call for countries to set aside intellectual property laws in the interest of collaboration. This shows the inherent inability of the different national owning classes to really cooperate. 

## Political Discussion on [[Russia|the Russian Revolution]]
I think that we keep coming back to the Russian revolution because it’s really such a great example of these ideas actually working, and we should always make sure our ideas are grounded in real experience and history. That’s what it means to have an outlook grounded in [[historical materialism]].     
I also think that the Russian Rev shows the need to remain principled and stand by your ideas even when it isn’t super popular at first. The parties that compromised their party values in order to secure power as fast as possible eventually lost the support of the [[proletariat]], who then saw that [[Bolsheviks]] were the only ones with a clear perspective, who didn’t flip flop and waver from one position to another.     

Hot take: I think that many discount the role of the material conditions for the Russian Revolution. [[WW1]]had destabilized society to an extent that we haven’t really seen any other examples of, and [[Bolsheviks]] stance on ending the war immediately was crucial to their support, particularly among the soldiers and [[peasantry]].

## Proposed BC Slate
Jesse for Branch Secretary
Drew for Press Officer
Ryan for Finance Officer
