# [[IMT]] Area Committee, 12-4-20
#meeting/political 

---
## Discussion on [[Where to Begin (1901)]]
The lesson here for us is to build the revolutionary organization. Divisions between the working class can be totally overturned by the hammer blow of events. 

## Break planning / Preparation plans for Spring
We will resume after Jan 4th. Our last reading group is on the 16th, and our last branch is this saturday, 12/5. 

The State & Rev. reading group has been good for the branch. There's a new layer emerging that will soon be ready for leadership roles. 

Someone should reach out to Ryan and see if he wants to step back to some degree. 

## AOB
### Newspaper Orders/Online subscriptions
I went ahead and got a bundle of 10 for the [[Seattle]] area.

Tabling is up in the air in Bellingham.

 ### WA-AC email list
 Somebody needs to clean up the way people are divided among the email lists.

 ### Recall Sawant campaign
[[Socialist Alternative]]'s [[Seattle]] city councilmember is under attack from a recall campaign. This is an attack on a working class candidate by the [[bourgeoisie]]. 

However, we need to keep the big picture in mind. We are not class enemies with SAlt. They are sectarian, and their impact is limited even within Seattle, their stronghold. They have watered down their politics in their pursuit of electoral shortcuts. While they hold on to good ideas, they are starting to blur the lines on [[class independence]]. 

We defend Sawant and the position she has attained. Anything the bourgeoisie tries against her will soon be tried against us. At the same time, we need to raise our differences in a friendly way. 

If we do that, and she is defeated, we will perhaps gain some attention as defenders of Sawant who also predicted the issues someone like her would face. 

 ### Next year readings
We might decide to start reading [[Marxism and the USA (2005)]]. It's quite long though. Maybe we could figure out how to do fewer sessions. If we do 30 pages per week, the book would take 8 sessions to get through. 