# [[IMT]] Branch, 5-16-20
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
Austerity is on the horizon. In CA, spending cuts to education, parks, and pay of public workers are on the table. These measures will further decrease consumer demand, prolonging the crisis in the long run. 

Bezos has made 30 billion during this crisis, and Amazon has removed the $2 / hr hazard pay for employees. 

The Senate reauthorized the Patriot Act by one vote, with Bernie failing to vote. 

The failures and betrayals of the “new left” politicians shows the need for a strong party structure that would lay the foundation for office holders. If they aren’t beholden to a strong party, these figures will drift to the right. 

## Political Discussion on [[Theses on Feuerbach (1845)]] 
I: [[Marx]] says that the failure of materialism so far is its failure to include the subjective. This focus on the subjective was taken up by [[idealism]]. What is ‘practical-critical activity?’ Is it activity that involves both contemplation and practice? Or does he really mean the activity of revolution?

III: [[Alan Woods]] has a lot to say about this one, but I find it confusing. Why must the doctrine of materialism divide society into two parts?

IV: a lot of Marxist philosophy seems to deal with the erasing of hard divisions between things, and looking at things more as a process than as individual entities. I’m not sure that this is entirely what this section is talking about, but that seems to be a part of it.

VI: The human essence is the ensemble of social relations. [[class consciousness]] and human nature are products of society and the world in which we live, not the other way around. 

## Marx’s Revolution in Philosophy: Reflections on the Theses on Feuerbach by [[Alan Woods]]
To view [[class consciousness]] as something apart from the physical body and material world is a one-sided analysis. 

[[materialism]] is fundamentally a rejection of idealism and dualism.

[[class consciousness]] arises from the [[evolution]] of the brain and the central nervous system. This evolution was driven by environmental stressors. 

In the section, ‘Marx’s philosophical revolution,’ I’m confused about how Woods makes the leap from the quoted section of Marx to saying that all [[labor]] is collective. I agree that this is true, but I just don’t see the connection.

The acceptance that [[class consciousness]] is both a social activity and determined by external material conditions is not a rejection of freedom. [[Hegel]] said that true freedom is not the denial of necessity but the understanding of necessity. 

Bourgeois philosophy must deny this in order to justify [[capitalism]] and individualism. [[postmodernism]] exists as a philosophy that fails utterly to explain the world, because it lacks a basis in materialism. 

We can see the [[alienation]] and confusion in popular culture. In Terminator, robots (things) have come to dominate humanity. But this is already a reality. We allow [[capital]] to dominate the interests of humanity. 

## Bryce’s Leadoff on the Political Discussion
We have to have a strong understanding of philosophy that can lay a foundation for our understanding of the world. At many historical turning points, prominent Marxists have returned to philosophy in order to understand new and unprecedented events. 

The Theses on Feuerbach are the very beginnings of Marxism. This document represents his first foray into developing a new philosophy and method of thought. 

Hegel was not a subversive figure. Hegelian philosophy was the official philosophy of the Prussian state. It didn’t pose a threat to any existing social structures.

After Hegel died, the right Hegelians and the young Hegelians emerged. Marx was a Young Hegelian, who interpreted Hegel through German [[liberalism]]. They often critiqued [[religion]] and the Prussian state in a liberal way. They didn’t have a material analysis, thinking that religion was the basis for the state’s authority. 

Feuerbach was born 14 years before Marx, and studied under Hegel. He was an ardent Hegelian but eventually distanced himself from Hegelian philosophy. He was a materialist but overcorrected in Marx’s opinion. He rejected dialectics along with the idealism of Hegel. This led to a one-sided and individualistic outlook on consciousness. 

Marx says that consciousness is not separate from the material world. He viewed Feuerbach as going too far into materialism, viewing humans as eternally reacting to reality, as passive. 

Since human activity is part of reality, human activity affects consciousness and consciousness therefore affects reality. Basically, subjective experience is an objective fact of reality. 

Fuerbach also failed to understand the social role and context of religion in society. We can see that those in the “new atheist” movement also fail to see the bigger picture. 

Our approach to religion is different. The Marxist view of religion is more sympathetic. We understand that [[alienation]] in class society is what perpetuates the drive towards religion and religious structures. We would have to change the entire basis of society to move beyond religion. This is the same approach we would take towards many other structures of oppression and reactionary ideologies such as racism and sexism. 

I think that this article is a nice change of pace, and it’s fascinating to delve deeper into the philosophy of consciousness and reality that many overlook when thinking of Marx. I find a lot of parallels between these ideas and some ideas in Buddhist philosophy, which I find very interesting. [[Marx]] and Buddhist thought actually have a lot in common, especially the view that the world is in a constant state of change, a state of becoming, and the saying that “cause becomes effect and effect becomes cause” has some overlaps with the Buddhist conception of [[karma]], actually. I think that it’s very interesting that there was almost certainly little to no exposure between Marx and Buddhists in 1800s England, but they came to some of the same views. However, Buddhism is certainly subject to the same forces that shape every religious practice. Buddhism in the US is firmly in the grip of liberalism, with meditation and mindfulness becoming Silicon Valley buzzwords to increase productivity, and Buddhism in [[Myanmar]] being used to justify genocide at the moment. This further demonstrates the truth of the Marxist view. 

Differences emerge with Marxists viewing change as coming from material circumstances, and Buddhists viewing change as a force of its own. 

Yeah, I agree that [[Buddhism]] definitely isn’t an effective method for understanding the forces of the world, as it's more of a practice for dealing with suffering rather than changing things on a material level. 

The way I view our role in the world is that the world is changing, but it's changing because of humans. So we should look at the material conditions to see where opportunities lie, but we still need to act on the opportunities that the material world offers. 

Going back to what [[Jacob]] mentioned, I think a materialist analysis of Buddhism is really interesting. I think that early Buddhism was very liberatory, with a total rejection of the caste system at the time. However, as a group that relied on donations and patronage, Buddhists were forced to cater to the wealthy in society at the time, and went forward from there. We can see in Zen Buddhism, that they supported open fascism during the Imperial stage in Japanese history, which if you know anything about Buddhism is absurd. The [[Buddha]] wouldn’t even advocate killing in self defense, much less imperial war and massacre of civilians. However, as we know, consciousness is shaped by the material conditions, and the [[pacifism|pacifist]] ideas of Buddhism were unable to stand against this force. 

## Organizational point on planning branch elections
-   The BC is planning to have elections soon. We will propose a slate on the 23rd, and have an election on the 30th. 
-   Branch secretary, press officer, and treasurer are the basic positions that we need to fill. 

## AOB
-   The Canadian Marxist school is happening this weekend.
-   Fighting fund collection appeal is next week at branch.