# The *Marx was Right* Forum, 5-19-21
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
*This is a forum held by the California IMT to discuss the coming eviction wave and how to fight it.*

## My intervention
First of all, I want to thank everyone for a great discussion so far. I think it's critical that we start to have these sorts of conversations, because the looming crisis is coming. 

My name's Patrick, I'm a member of the [[Seattle]] branch of Socialist Revolution. Here in [[Seattle]], the housing market is already a perpetual crisis. The average rent in the city has nearly doubled since 2010, and the homeless population has in turn increased by over 25%. 

We're now moving towards a situation where slums are organically developing in one of the richest cities on Earth. Luckily for us, the city government is dedicated to the issue. No, they're not providing additional services and housing for those who find themseleves on the street, they're sending armed police to demolish these camps. 

They bulldoze whatever structures these people have erected to shelter themselves, sending folks to the next park or freeway overpass where they can try to survive the next night.

All of this is happening in a city where so much capital is flowing it would make your head spin. The workers of the Seattle metro area generate 300 billion dollars of wealth every year. And yet we're told that it would be impossible to house all our neighbors, or to ensure a decent standard of living for everyone, no matter what. 

Marxists reply that Yes, it is impossible, under [[capitalism]]! It's simply more profitable to have everyone fighting over the scraps that the capitalists throw from their table. We desperatley need worker control of the resources of society, control of the wealth that the workers themselves create! 

But it's one thing to call for dramatic change, and it's quite another to try to accomplish it. And in Seattle there are those who have tried. Our protests during [[June 2020 uprising]] forced the police to abandon the precinct just a fifteen minute walk from my house! But without organization, without formal leadership, without a clear program of action, all the sacrifices given, and all the gains made were lost in a matter of weeks. 

We need clarity above all else. We need to study the past and see what has been tried, we need to understand how capitalism works, and where its weak points are. And we need to organize a working class fight back against the forces that are arrayed in front of us. Whether we're confronted with police brutality, sexism, evictions, or any of the other ways that the system of capitalism makes life hell for working people, we need to connect these struggles with the root cause, capitalism as a whole. 

Once roused to their feet, the workers are the most powerful force in the world. All we need to do is win their trust and tell them the truth about the real enemy. And that's why I'm proud to be a member of Socialist Revolution and the IMT, because I believe that that's the road we're on, and the cause we're fighting for! 