# Branch, 5-29-21
`LINKS`: [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
## Agenda and minutes
- Propose a point on proposing Daniel for membership.

## News updates
- [Biden budget](https://www.wsj.com/articles/biden-budget-plan-fiscal-2022-11622169489?mod=series_bidenbudgetplan)
	- 10 billion extra for the military, bringing total to $1.5 trillion. This is almost a 9% increase.
	- Total budget is around $6 trillion. 
	- This is being compared to FDR's New Deal programs, but in reality [[Biden]] is just trying to fill the potholes of American [[capitalism]] and is failing. 
	- Tendency for govt involvement to rise
		- 10% GDP spending during great depression
		- 25% GDP spending today
		- Failure of the bourgeoisie to pay for social development.
- [Mass grave in Canada](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/28/world/canada/kamloops-mass-grave-residential-schools.html)
	- Discovery of a mass grave containing 215 children at a residential school built to forcibly "civilize" Natives. 
	- Canada wants to pretend this past doesn't exist, but the last of these schools closed as recently as 1996. 
	- The Catholic Church, which ran this school, has refused to apologize for the abuses that went on. 
- Protests in [[Iran]] ([source](https://socialistrevolution.org/iran-for-an-independent-labor-movement/))
	- Disputes over benefits like pensions and grants which have fallen behind the rate of inflation.
	- The [[unions]] have also gotten involved.
	- Every major city has seen demonstrations.
	- The [[IMT]] section there is intervening.

## Political discussion on [[The Mexican Revolution - Past, Present, and Future (2010)]]
- Need to move beyond a cult of personality around [[Emiliano Zapata]]
	- A party can carry on the ideas farther than any single person
- Overview of the [[permanent revolution]]
	- National bourgeoisie cannot push through bourgeois-democratic demands today
	- Proletariat must rise to the task
- Applications to other countries
	- Movement for liberation in [[Palestine]]
		- Some support [[Hamas]] because they think that Hamas represents a force fighting against [[imperialism]], even if they admit that Hamas (and fundamentalism generally) represents the [[petty bourgeoisie]].
- The modern [[EZLN]]
	- Represents a peasant movement
	- Reflects the very fragile state of the government in [[Mexico]]
		- Uneasy truce since the state is incapable of dominating the countryside
	- Can only truly succeed if they link up with the urban masses who can directly challenge the state and build a system that will 

## BC election schedule for post-break
- 

## Meeting topics for first in-person meeting
- ...

## Proposing Daniel for membership
- We've discussed our positions on identity politics, anarchism, mutual aid, and we've gone through the members' handbook and agreed on all the important points. 
- Areas of improvement
	- Professionalism
	- Will follow the precedent that the Bellingham branch sets
- Tom Qs
	- The break and 1 on 1s
	- Finances for Daniel