# [[IMT]] Area Committee, 4-1-21 
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- Eviction wave incoming
- 30% of those in WA have been vaccinated. This opens the possibility of open work.
- Recall Sawant campaign has advanced through the WA supreme court. Our position relative to [[Socialist Alternative]] will be important as we engage with the working class in [[Seattle]].
- Bellingham homeless struggle will connect to the rent crisis on the horizon. The police are kicking encampments from one place to another. 
- The trial of Derek Chauvin is currently happening. The result of this trial will be an event that will be felt.
- There has been upheaval in [[Brazil]]. The military leadership has all quit, defecting from Bolsonaro's administration.

## West Coast Events
The *Marx Was Right* forum is coming up on the 14th, with input from a few branches on the west coast. The Bay Area has been hosting this regularly for a few years. Planning meetings have been happening weekly, to coordinate flyering, getting the word out, preparing interventions during discussion, and other work. 

## [[SMART goals]] prep
### My Intervention
I think that we should emphasize that the IMT isn't just a reading group. We've really only been doing reading group and branch, but those formats for organization are just a part of what we should be doing under normal circumstances. Of course, because of [[COVID-19]], it was correct for us to limit our activities to those activities, but now we're moving towards a period where we can widen our horizons. Since most new members have little experience with this public work, our task is to set ourselves up for success with a relatively clean slate of members. 

I think the main benefit I'm looking at here is the consolidation that comes from public work. I don't think we're starving for quantitative growth, but we need to round out all the members in the way that public work does.

With that in mind, I propose that we start tabling at least monthly on a formal basis, maybe the first weekend of each month or something. It's up for discussion as to when we should *begin* tabling, wether May or June, but I think it's crucial that we get concrete as to when that will start. I think we should make it a goal that every member get involved in this public work in the next six months.

Another goal we should make concrete is getting everyone paid up on dues quickly. This shouldn't be too hard, so I think a concrete goal would be to have all members caught up in the next 2 months.

### JT
Consolidation is more than just reading. We have to not only understand the ideas on paper, but understand the ideas when we're in the street and on campuses.

### Drew
We should set up the one-on-one structure again. 

## Check in about comrade VR
### JW
They explained the problems with the way that he brings forward non-Marxist ideas. They put forward a need for a concrete plan in regards to his differences with the organization. He fundamentally misunderstands the purpose of a [[cadre]] organization. We are deliberately trying to train Marxists in the methods of Marxism. 

### JaM
The ultimate issue here is an organizational issue connected to a political one. 

### My intervention
It seems harsh to come down so clearly against Vyom, and none of us are attacking him as a person. He's an energetic, very bright person. But as a organization that descends from the Bolsheviks, we have to prioritize the health of the organziation over personal feelings. To be a Marxist cadre organziation is to be a small small island in a sea of bourgeois, petty bourgeois, and ultraleft ideas. We have to steadfastly prevent the

## Check in about comrade AB
### DM
Drew asked where he was at, he said he was torn about coming back. He liked the org's structure but had political disagreements. After the discussion on Vyom's proposal he said that the "diversity problem" in our branch came to the forefront. He didn't mean the membership, he meant that the authors we read aren't diverse. 

He said that [[JT]] said "If we want to study [[evolution]], we shouldn't read creationists." AB interpreted this that JT was saying that the perspective of POC is made up or fantastical. 

### My intervention
There may have been underlying reasons for the development of these differences. Like I said, we're in a sea of incorrect ideas, and I think the ideas of [[identity politics]] are the most infective and pernicious of all. The differences that AB raised indicate to me a lack of 