# [[IMT]] Branch, 4-3-21
`LINKS:` 
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- [[Biden]] released $2.2 trillion infrastructure plan including a few hundred billion for renewable investments. 
- Coup attempts in Niger and Jordan demonstrate widespread intability. 

## [[SMART goals]] discussion
Sections for discussion include external work,  internal consolidation, and housekeeping.

KM wants organizational point on the breakdown of AC vs branch decisionmaking power, and a reading on the role of a rev party in general. She wants a public meeting soon, and to read about the [[permanent revolution]]. 

JW agrees on discussing role of rev party, and seconds reintroducing tabling. 

JeM says monthly tabling would work for him, but we need to make sure schedules align. He wants to discuss coups as well, perhaps a dive into Bolivia. 

### Proposals
1. Branches will table monthly, flyering for the *Marx Was Right* forum happening at the end of May.
2. Branch will have 3 organizational points, on contacts, the AC vs branch, and tabling within the next month.
3. Half of the next eight branch discussions will be on revolutionary history.
4. Reading group will begin reading [[Left Wing Communism an Infantile Disorder (1920)]]. 

## Update on Seattle branch finances
We currently have $171.82 in branch funds, with a monthly income of $130 going to the National Center to support the full-timers that provide our support from National and the production of literature. Importantly, a lot of this [[currency|money]] is sent from our national section to other countries, to support the important work happening in places like [[Venezuela]], [[Pakistan]], and lots of other countries. It's our duty as the section in the US to support the work happening in countiries where the comrades don't have as much access to cash. 

Notably, we have some work to do with paying off back dues, as only two of our members are actually caught up on dues. I'll be reaching out to everyone to collect those, and please please let me know if that's a strain at all, and we can work something out. 

These venmo requests will be coming from @SEA_IMT, so don't be surprised, that's me. Except for this month, I'll be sending these requests on the first, and I would really appreciate if everyone could have those submitted during the first week of each month. 