# [[IMT]] Area Committee, 3-11-21
#meeting/political 

---
## Political Discussion: branch strategy and planning
- Jake's thoughts
	- We could have done better from an organizational standpoint.
	- When disagreements are likely, it's important that everyone know what they're getting into and have time to prepare. 
	- Overall, professionalism and formality is good when it comes to branch operations.
	- This minor clash represents a desire to break out of the routine that we've fallen into. 
	- It would have been better for Vyom to have the onus of responsibility for raising this point at branch and initiating a discussion on it. That would have made it less like an ambush.
	- Consolidation is an extended process. 
	- When taking on new members, we should attempt to investigate possible sticking points that we suspect they may have. Perhaps Vyom's process was too rushed in this regard. 
- My thoughts
	- I think that I felt a little uncomfortable with the situation, and I wish that we had given more advance notice to Vyom and Aadil that disagreements would surface in the discussion. 
	- Other than that, I feel like it went well from a political perspective. 
	- I think getting involved with some sort of public work is really vital. Even if it isn't productive from a numerical growth standpoint, getting out of the routine would be great for our branch. 
- Drew's thoughts
	- Aadil reached out to them to talk about stepping back. It does seem politically motivated. 
- Jesse's thoughts
	- He was surprised by Aadil stepping back. 
	- He agrees that we need to combat routinism. Moving from economics to philosophy will help with this. 
