# IMT Branch, 5-15-21
`LINKS`: [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 
 
---
## News Updates
- Report from Marathon picket line
	- The comrades in Minneapolis have been attending a strike of the Marathon oil refinery. It's an intersting position that Marxists find themselves in when intervening in ongoing strikes and the [[unions]] generally. We have to manuver around the union bureaucrats, who are often opposed to us supporting the strike. However, we also have to approach the workers skillfully, since many of them have faith in the union leadership even while they criticize the bureaucrats. 
- Columbian Revolt meeting report back by DM
	- Speaker was John Fortique. Started by giving background on the situation in [[Colombia]]. Then talked on class makeup of Columbia. He said [[petty bourgeoisie]] plays a different role there than in [[USA]]. Strike is in response to tax bill that has been repealed. However, strike has continued. 
	- Columbian state hasn't learned how to use the carrot to control the masses, only the stick. However, the masses are no longer afraid of the state and the classic tactics have failed. Pressure from the masses is immense.
	- Isolated cases of military defections, one case of military defending protestors from police. 
	- No leadership or centralization around a program. 
	- Conditions are ripe for revolution, but a workers' party is needed to funnel the anger of the masses.
- Liz Cheney is removed from GOP leadership because of taking an anti-[[Trump]] stance. 
	- This demonstrates that Trumpism is still alive in the Republican base. The anti-[[Trump]] Republicans are failing to regain a seat at the table. 
- [[Israel]] escalates war against the people of [[Palestine]].
	- Israel's actions in provoking the people of Palestine is totally ignored, with all media attention focusing on the small counter-attacks that Hamas mounts.
	- The IMT supports Palestine, and points out that the tactics of [[Hamas]] are not useful in creating a movement that can actually topple the Israeli state. Only a cross-ethnic working class alliance made up of the Palestinian workers and the anti-Zionist workers inside Israel has the power to combat the forces of quasi-[[fascism]] and [[imperialism]] in the Zionist movement.
- Pipeline hack cripples access to oil , causes gas prices to increase
- Inslee vetoes electric car mandate that was funded through taxing indivudial drivers.
	- This represents that the capitalist state is fundamentally incapable of dealing with [[climate change]] on a systemic basis. 

## Political Discussion: [[50 years since Allende's election in Chile - lessons for the future (2020)]]
- My intervention
	- I think the main take-away here is that you simply cannot have half a revolution. Once you begin the process, on purpose or spurred forward by forces out of your control, the process will either end in a smashing of [[state]] and [[capitalism]], or it will end in counter-revolution and a terrible period of reaction. In history, the best leaders are the ones who can rise to meet the historical forces that they are presented with, the ones who can see the choice that lies in front of them clearly, and act on it. Unfortunately, [[Allende]] was not this kind of person. I think he was totally corageous and his party did carry through wide-ranging demands and reforms that were excellent. But in hindsight, as Marxists, it is our duty to criticize the one thing that a figure did wrong, even when they did 99 other things right. Because within our lifetimes most likely, there will be a similar choice posed to the leaders of an [[USA|American]] [[reformism|reformist]] party. They will have to decide if they will sit on their hands and favor "the process" over taking power, or if they will rise to meet the demands that are put upon them by the situation. And as Marxists, we need to be loudly putting forward the correct course of action. So that's why we criticize figures like Allende. Our goal when engaging in politics isn't to be virtuous, or to praise those who gave their life for the cause (see [[moralism]]). Our goal is to win power, and abolish capitalism. And in order to do that, we have to look at past leaders clearly, without sentiment, and criticize their mistakes, and learn from their successes.
	- For example, we can see a parallel process happening in [[Venezuela]] today. Chavez' party, PSUV, was elected on a massive wave of popular support, and his reforms and nationalizations did rouse the masses to his defense when the [[CIA]] attempted to perform a coup in 2002. However, Chavez and his sucessor Maduro are commiting a similar error to Allende. The only reason that the workers' movement wasn't crushed in blood in 2002 was the fact that Chavez had the support of the workers and peasants of Venezuela who were willing to fight for him, as well as support from large enough sections of the military. But like we often say, the masses cannot remain in the streets forever. Either PSUV will push through a real revolution in Venezuela, expropriating the capitalist class and creating a [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]], or the forces of imperalism will be hot on their heels until they sense a lapse in the readiness of the workers to fight, and crush the gains made by Chavez by force. 
- The role of electoralism in the situation
	- Some on the left think that we can either run candidates as a method to make change, or we have to totally abstain from engaging in electoralism.
	- At certain periods, a working class party running candidates can raise the profile of communism or socialism. However, at a late stage in the revolutionary process, those who want to channel all the anger through the electoral system will be playing a regressive role. At a certain point, we have to recognize that electoralism is a means to an end, not an end in itself. If it can raise the profile of the revolutionary movement, or give the masses more confidence, then it is progressive. However, there will come a time where the arming of the masses in the defense of the revolution will supercede the importance of bourgeois electoralism.

## June Break
- National is going on break the first two weeks of June. We would pause branch and reading group. We will follow them. 

## Schedule for Branch Aggregate
- [[Jacob]]'s proposal
	- First meeting of the month will be organizational, last meeting of the month will be branch aggregate. 
- Ryan will be in Ellensburg for the summer so he has to figure out how to "attend" branch. Perhaps he can use a phone? Or attend BDC, or drive 2 hours to [[Seattle]] once a month or something.

## AOB
- Tom wanted to bring up the Marx Was Right forum on the 19th at 6pm. 