# Area Committee, Thursday, August 19, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
# The role of the AC
- My comments
	- Benefits include feeling connected with other comrades
	- SEA is quite small to be having a regular AC
	- We should be focused on local work
	- But it's nice to see Jesse!
- JT's comments
	- Is the AC needed anymore?
	- Replace with BC in BHAM and CC contacts?
	- AC meant to be political leadership of a region, built up from each BC
	- [[JT]] cannot continue to convene this sort of meeting, and wants us to be the regional leadership
	- We should develop a good cadence to the in-person local work in SEA. 
	- We want to see full adoption of Box, as it shrinks overhead. No need for email lists! 
	- Branches with too little opportunities for public work tend to cling to whatever organizational apparatus they have built. 
- JM's comments
	- Perhaps replace the AC with one-on-ones between JW and PN
	- We should attempt to maximize the political content of our work, and only use organizational work as a means to that end

# SEA integration into CA BDC + BHAM check-in
- My comments
	- Timing?
- JT's comments
	- Temporary move
	- Requires adding SEA members to the CA IMT slack
	- Mondays at 6pm. Next one is on the 30th (CA aggregate)
	- SEA should be removed from WRC group
- JW's comments
	- Morale high
	- Lots of energy from the comrades
	- A social is planned
	- Public work going well, lots of contacts

# JT visit to WA
- My comments
	- SEA event? Just a normal reading group?
	- Maybe we could do an in-person aggregate in Bellingham
- JT's comments
	- He wants to do an all-WA SWOT session and revising of goals
	- SEA-specific meeting as well

# Return to in-person work
- My comments
	- Meeting space issues
		- Libraries have free spaces that will be available after [[COVID-19]] concerns end (not anytime soon)
- JT's comments
	- This transition will be hard
	- Some people may not be able to sustain it or have to scale back participation
	- The recent growth of the IMT has been on a basis of extreme flexibility, and some of that growth will fall away as membership becomes an active part of comrades' lives
	- There is *no* substitute for in-person meetings and we cannot sacrifice these events on the altar of flexibility and inclusivity
	- Before the zoom era, you either made it to branch or you didn't. That's where we're going here

# Fall offensive
- My comments
	- UW begins classes Sep 29
	- Differences from normal paper sales conduct?

# AOB
- My comments
	- We should coordinate buying plane tickets for the National Congress!