# Area Committee, Thursday, June 17, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
## Political discussion - [[IMT World Perspectives (2021)]]
- [[JT]]'s commentary
	- Why do we ratify perspectives every 2 years? To reach political agreement.
	- We place political questions front and center. 
	- Inflation
		- When the Federal Reserve stops printing [[currency|money]], the capitalists will panic, causing the Fed to resume their 'quantitative easing' again. They've already increased the money supply by 30% and cannot continue forever.
		- This doesn't even cover the effects on the poorer countries
		- State of free-fall incoming
- My commentary
	- Clear sign of organizational health
	- I did read the document looking for any sorts of things that I would add
	- Very balanced, revolutionary but sober
	- Reflection on the whole period
		- Frog in boiling water metaphor
	- The [[bourgeoisie]] and [[liberalism|liberals]] are full of doubt and uncertainty, while [[Marxism|Marxists]] are vindicated by crisis
	- Reassures me in the same way that meeting the comrade Ethan from New Jersey did
		- All really on the same page, carrying out the same work all across the country and the world
- JW's commentary
	- Center falling out across Europe
	- Credit is like a blood transfusion
- JM's commentary
	- Asked about mentions of inflation
	- Says [[credit]] is the main foundation of the global economy
	- [[Cuba]] suspending bank deposits in USD due to tightening restrictions

## Bandwidth check-in
- My commentary
	- Busy this week, but overall excited and ready
	- [[JC|Josh]] seems eager as well
	- We will know more after branch this Saturday
- JW's commentary
	- He will be busy, BHAM branch is going well
	- Will soon meet in community room at KM's apartment complex
	- Concerned about the books
	- Met with KM and discussed professionalism
- JM's commentary
	- Very stretched right now as he is moving
	- Josh is the only one making it to branch, seems to have free time
	- Kylee is stepping back for a month, and then moving to [[Germany]] after they become available again
- JT's commentary
	- He has shifted focus from national to just the west coast. Feels good about the next period

## JT visit to WA
- JT's commentary
	- National team includes more people in Philly, Pittsburgh, Pheonix. More of a regional focus for each full-timer.
	- JT will be following up with Las Vegas and wants to make a tour of the branches.
	- He wants us to figure out the best format for this tour, and how best to use his time.
	- Maybe an event coinciding with the time slot?
	- Cadre school = for members, create a program for training up the comrades and patch gaps
- My commentary
	- Depends on where the work is at later this summer
	- If many contacts, public event

## Consolidation plan for branches splitting
- My commentary
	- Both branches should prioritize balancing exterior and interior work, as this is the new factor emerging as we exit the lockdown
	- Potential for growth in both branches, possible changes in [[class consciousness]] lie in wait

## BC proposals
- My commentary
	- Tom ready for BC? Claire?
	- We will see about ability to transition to in-person work to judge members professionalism
	- SEA branch probably doesn't need a BC at this point.

## Splitting Google Drive
- Contacts sheet and consolidation sheet must be duplicated
- Either branch can really do this, we don't have many contacts right now so no real worries about some slipping through the cracks
- Time to transition to www.box.com
	- We gotta reach out to Laura Brown at National

## *Marx Was Right* forum check-in
- Next event on June 29th
- JM creating flyer

## AOB
- I can train contacts officer
- Reading group
- Should JW enter Daniel as a member or should I? How do we want to handle that going forward?
- JT says we should shoot for 7 members as a developed branch, and a BC of around 3.