# [[IMT]] Branch, 1-9-21
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates:
- Covid vaccine rollout failures. 
- Amar Fayaz released! 
- 9.5% increase in monthly destruction of the Amazon. Bolsonaro cut funding to environmental protection. 
-[[Democratic Party]] won Senate control, completing their trifecta of legislative and executive control. 
- 2 [[Seattle]] cops placed on leave after attending insurrection

## Political Discussion: Capitol Hill Insurrection
- My intervention
	- Marxists must keep perspective.
	- Not a coup, but also not a positive or revolutionary development. 
- Liberal pundits are hysterical because of an attack on a central institutions. 
- Lack of right-wing organization prevented much from really being done while the Capitol was occupied. 
- The Republican leaders who fermented the right-populism soon lost control of that force, and this is the culmination of that energy. 
- Bipartisan horror really derives from [[Trump]]'s attempt to involve 'the masses' in politics, curcumventing the normal proceedings of the bureaucracy. 
- Prospects for [[Biden]]
	- This event sets up a [[Biden]] presidency for "restoring order" and cracking down on dissent, and will leave a material legacy of increased state funding for repression. 
	- Biden is now posed to be the president of austerity, law & order, and a return to total domination by the bourgeoisie over "tribalism" and "populism."
- Other national events
	- Inslee's mansion invasion shows the organic nature (albeit very very weak) of the movement on a national scale. 
- What is the orientation of the [[IMT]] towards a coup?
	- We support bourgeois democracy against a rightwing takeover, but we do so on a revolutionary basis. 
	- Concretely, if we were larger, we would organize counter-protests against the coup, and we would point out that the only way to protect democracy is to establish a [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]] and unify against the forces of reaction. 
	- We would also mobilize a strike wave to disrupt any organization of a real coup.
- Talking points for contacts
	- Forces on the right are too weak for a real takeover
	- The only thing that can defend against the right wing is the working class
	- Rising levels of anger show the desperate need for working-class organization
- What is Trumpism?
	- It is comparable to [[fascism]], but doesn't fit the context
	- Reflects anxiety about the decline of capitalism
	- Seeks return to the golden days of [[USA|American]] empire
	- Gains force based on the declining living standards, especially rural standards. 
		- The most distinctive divide between Democrat and Republican is urban vs rural. 
	- Very shortsighted, but gaining steam particularly among the [[petty bourgeoisie]] and even the ruling class slowly. Workers hold out hope for Trumpism in the abscence of any other option. 
	- Where will the energy go? The Republicans appear to be in the process of cutting off the populist elements 
- The future
	- When the left grows by leaps, the right will grow by steps. We must be prepared for this. 
	- While the left will always have the numbers and ultimately the real advantage, the right will likely be more desperate and willing to go to extremes. 
	- The ultimate result of the trajectory of the right wing is isolated terroristic events. 
- Other left organization orientations
	- Any support for the capitalist state that doesn't advance the interests of the working class is unprincipled. 
	- We have to fight the fascists, and any attacks on the positive aspects of bourgeois democracy and the gains that the working class has made. The goal is to do this without aiding the state overall, or supporting the bourgeoisie. 
- Vyom's points
	- We shouldn't downplay fascism, and we should call these people out as fascists. 
	- The infrastructure isn't there for a general strike, so that's what we really need to be building. 

## Organizational Point: Professionalism and Discipline
We should be aware of what aspect of the work is hardest for each of us. Some might struggle with public work, while others struggle with organizational aspects, while others struggle with eduction.

To deal with difficulties, we need discipline. We must build it through practice. 

Routine is an important way to build discipline. We should be applying the same mindset where we have a workday routine to political work. 

With bad organizational practices, we weaken our ability to attract new members and grow as an organization.

We have to apply discipline to all aspects of our life. When we talk about the health of the IMT, in one way we are talking about the health of the members in our daily lives. 

Professionalism is also something we should bring to the work. We need to earn the respect of each other, and the working class broadly. When doing public work, we have to remember that we're acting as the face of a larger organization. It's easy to leave a bad impression when interacting with others. 

Over time, it's easy to lapse into casual behavior, especially while we're on Zoom. If you wouldn't behave a certain way in person, don't behave that way in branch on Zoom. 

We need to make sure that we have a open atmosphere where anyone can jump in. We have to break down the division within branch between those that talk a lot, and those that just listen. 

*The breakdown into a group of people that talk often and those that just listen is kind of a self-reinforcing process. As the pattern develops, people jump in to fill space, and that further compounds the process and makes it harder for others to jump in. So I think we all have things we can do to work against this, people who don't ofen speak up should make an effort to jump in more, and we should also make an effort to not just speak to fill space, and to lower the barrier to entry for others to speak.*

## AOB
Reading group is meeting to start part 1 of [[The Transitional Program (1938)]] this Wednesday. 