# [[IMT]] Branch, 5-8-21
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
## News Updates / Bulletins
- Box.com
	- Access to old bulletins, reading guides, and other political materials in a secure and efficient way. We should think about migrating our shared documents into box at some point. 
- May 1 interventions across the US and world
	- 135 contacts, 210 paper sales, and over $1,500 in proceeds in the [[USA]].
	- Austria: 340 paper sales
	- [[Brazil]]: petition signed by 1,075 calls for mass meeeting against the Bolsonaro govt. 
	- [[Canada]] and the [[UK]]: intervention in marches and labor struggles across the country. 
	- El Salvador: 315 paper sales
	- [[Indonesia]]: some members arrested during anti-govt protest
	- [[Italy]]: 500 paper sales, 30 contacts
	- [[Nigeria]]: 139 paper sales
	- [[Pakistan]]: 10,000 posters printed across the country
	- [[Spain]]
	- [[Sweden]]
	- [[Switzerland]]: 350 sales
	- [[Venezuela]]
	- Many more which comrades should check out in this [article](https://www.marxist.com/may-day-2021-though-cowards-flinch-and-traitors-sneer.htm)
- COVID has shifted its center of gravity into the third world. India and other countries in Southeast Asia are being hit very hard due to a lack of doctors. 

## Political Discussion: [[The Class, the Party, and the Leadership (1940)]]
This is an excellent article that I hadn't read in a really long time, but I think this really represents [[Trotsky]] at his peak. I'm looking forward to talking more about the relationship between the masses, the working class, the revolutionary party, and the leadership of that party.

This article covers a lot of ground, including the approach we have to take towards the working class, and other political parties, as well as the population as a whole. That means it's really hard to cover all of it in discussion, so I think I'll focus on what I think the biggest takeaway for us is. 

For us, I think the main lesson here is to think about the process of revolution as a series of stages that we have to anticipate. As Trotsky says, we have to recognize that sooner or later, the workers are going to realize that the bourgeoisie, in the form of the Democratic and Republican parties, and eventually their bureaucratic union leadership in the US is totally incapable of providing a way forward. This means that we have to cut a wide swath between us and the representatives of the current system. In the meantime, we have to develop a clear conception of how the world works, and create a disciplined and effective structure for getting that message out there. If we can do this, we can be preapred for the moment where the workers are looking for a revolutionary message. 

## Financial Appeal
I think that Tom hit the nail on the head with his leadoff. The national organization is asking for a lot of sacrifices from our members, not only with this financial appeal, but with the time and energy that we put into the organization. And I hope that everyone can see from our political perspectives and the professional way that we seek to organize, that this is an organization deserving of sacrifice. 

Just as we can dispel the smoke and mirrors around [[capitalism]] by looking at the flow of [[currency|money]] and the resources that money represents, so too can we see the real character of a political organization by looking at how professionally and carefully the leadership uses the money that we give to them. For the IMT, all this money is being directed by the democratically elected leadership on the Executive Committee, which was elected at the last National Congress. This money is being spent on printing literature, hiring more full timers as our organization expands, and donating to the International organization so that it can be used in other countries where the US dollar can go a long ways. 

This support is our unique responsibility as [[USA|American]] members of the IMT, and it can be a heavy burden. We shouldn't take on more than we can handle, but we should also take advantage of the opportunity we have to provide support for comrades who are fighting the same fight we are, all over the world, and often under much more difficult conditions. 

So if you can, even if it isn't as much as other members can, any amount that you donate will be spent wisely, and will be put directly towards the fight for developing the kind of leadership that we talked about in our political discussion, and the kind of leadership that the American working class needs in order to find a successful path forward. 

## Plan for Splitting Branches
We will go back to in-person branch meetings on June 19. We will continue to have reading group twice a month digitally, so that we can continue to meet with the whole Washington IMT. 

## Solidarity Point
The IMT section in [[Mexico]] have drafted a statement on low-paid government workers in the country. The workers are paid below minimum wage, and have been denied the right to organize. They have formed the "469 Democratic Movement" in order to demand better compensation and the right to form a union. 