# Branch, Saturday, July 10, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
## News updates
- US finalizing withdraw from [[Afghanistan]], 
	- Bungled the withdrawl from Bagram Airfield (didn't inform Afghan commander)
	- Looters raided the base for hours before govt troops arrived
	- 5,000 prisoners left behind, as well as thousands of cars and armored vehicles with no keys
	- Taliban will likely topple the government within months
- Data from [[Israel]] show 64% protection from Pfizer against Delta variant infection
	- 94% effective at preventing hospitalization
- New Israeli coalition is dealt a blow
	- Failure to renew a law barring Arabs married to Israelis from citizenship
	- Law separates thousands of families from re-uniting
	- Reflects indecision in the ruling class (right wing voted against just to fuck with the "left")
- [[Japan]] announces it would help [[USA]] defend Taiwan against China
- NYC branch Pride intervention
	- Sold 76 papers, made 103 contacts!
	- Demonstrates opportunity
	- Reinforces revolutionary optimism 
- [[Socialist Alternative]] changes recall strategy
	- Tactics regardless, represents total orbit around Sawant
- President of [[Haiti]] assassinated. 
- [[Biden]] "regulations" on big business. 

## Leadoff - [[IMT World Perspectives (2021)]]
- My leadoff
	- [[Russia]]
		- Falling living standards
		- Putin
		- The CPRF
			- Internal splits possible
			- Accusations of [[Trotskyism]]
	- [[India]]
		- Farmers' movement
		- Role of [[Stalinism]] and [[unions]]
		- Slogan of the general strike
	- [[Myanmar]]
		- Military vs [[USA]] capitalists over spoils of privatization
		- Chinese investment
	- [[China]]
		- Debt has risen by 30%, to 285% of [[GDP]]
		- Hong Kong response points to [[CPC]] weakness
	- Inability of a WW3 scenario
		- Failures of [[USA]] abroad
		- Nuclear weapons
		- Only possible under [[Bonapartism]]
	- [[Keynesianism]]
		- Definition --> public funds pumping up economy during crisis
		- FT editorial: free market requires [[state]] support
		- Global debt at 356% of global GDP, rising by 35% in 2020
		- Inevitable inflation
			- Not visible yet due to low demand
			- M2 supply has risen by $4 trillion in 2020, a 26% increase
	- Economic recovery
		- Capitalists call on "pent-up demand"
		- Recovery will be more pronounced in China, triggering protectionism
		- Longer perspectives
			- Interest rate increase
			- Cheap credit dries up
			- Lending ceases, causing bankruptcies
			- [[stock market]] panic
			- Investment ceases
			- Banks may fail
	- Political dimensions
		- "For Marxists, the study of economics only has importance insofar as it expresses itself in the consciousness of the masses."
		- Working class confidence rises during recovery
		- No possibility of quick devastating reaction
			- Lack of [[petty bourgeoisie]] and [[peasantry]] in most of the world
		- Very bad working class leadership
		- Lengthy crisis with twists and turns
	- The [[unions]]
		- Leaders represent past [[class consciousness]]
		- Unions will be transformed
	- Our task
		- Prepare for events
		- Form a potential leadership
		- Worker struggle --> rev conclusions
		- Workers will choose us if we are worthy
		- Our competition
			- Far fewer sects, [[Stalinism]] is weak
			- Main opponent for leadership is [[reformism]]
				- Inevitably will be exposed since no reforms are possible
		- IMT strength = theory + youth orientation
		- Quality > quantity at this point
		- We have over 1,000 new members during [[COVID-19]]
	- Qs for discussion
		- How can we increase professionalism in SEA branch?
		- How can we take advantage of crisis as effectively as possible locally?

> Comrades of the international! We are in a race against the clock. Our task can be simply stated: it is to make conscious the unconscious (or semi-conscious) will of the working class to change society. Great events are being prepared. In order to raise up to the immense tasks, we require an internal revolution, beginning with a revolution of our own mentality. We cannot think in the same way as in the past. All traces of the small circle mentality and routine must be rooted out. What is needed is a professional approach to party building. There is nothing more important in our lives. And if we continue to pursue the correct ideas, tactics and methods, we will certainly achieve it.

## Political discussion
- My commentary
	- [[CrC]] --> Russian urbanization rate is 74%.
	- Give overview of [[Seattle]] political landscape.
		- CHOP mere blocks from here
		- Anger bubbling under the surface
		- Vaccum on the left
- [[CrC]] commentary
	- ==Role of petty bourgeosie in Russia?==
	- Don't forget partial positive role of [[CPC]].
	- Our slogan should be "close the exclusion zones!" in regard to the special economic zones in China.
	- FT has always maintained [[state]] role in markets. 
	- Taking advantage of crisis: intervention at demonstrations
	- How to root out small circle mentality
		- Small circle thesis: must start with small circle of people
		- ==Does the move past small circle organizing apply to us?==
- JaM commentary
	- Historical accident vs necessity --> Navalny vs anti-Putin sentiment, etc
	- Our position on China will be relevant when tabling
	- China *does* have strikes and things, they're just hard to hear about
	- Professionalism
		- Will improve organically in the next few months
		- Google Drive is critical
		- Need for good habits
- JC commentary
	- ==Place we can compile meeting guidelines?==

## Splitting branch drives
- My commentary
	- It has been done
	- Let me know if there are access issues
	- No BC as of right now due to size
- JaM commentary
	- This is a learning process

## World Congress signup
- JaM commentary
	- Watch party for second half each day. 

## Ordering new papers
- SR27 out now
- Number of bundles to order = number of tabling sessions minus one
	- Current inv = 10
- JC duties
	- Place order on website
	- Tell me to send $ (we have )
- JaM commentary
	- We should get a bundle asap

## AOB
- Meeting tracker
	- How to handle combined reading group?
- Next leadoff