# [[IMT]] Branch, 1-30-21
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- Bellingham homeless camp cleared by police. We can see the need for a missing link occupying the position between the liberal, pragmatic, and ultimately ineffectual outreach organizations, and the ultra-left sects and anarchists who have the vision but not the theory of how to reach it. 
- GameStop crisis shows that class-struggle feelings inevitably infect every aspect of society during periods of decay. 
- Police brutality in Tacoma. 
- Mass protests across [[Russia]] against Putin jailing an opposition leader. 

## Organizational Point: Contact Work
- My intervention
	- Balancing knowing our limits with being available to those who are looking for us
	- Training benefits of contact work
		- Public discussion of ideas
		- Confidence in abilities
	- Basic tabling experience
		- Setting up table in area with lots of foot traffic
		- Campuses are good normally
		- People will generally self-select to come up to you
		- Talk about the ideas
		- Sell papers
		- Follow up with those you sell papers to, and any contacts you make
	- Most important thing is to follow up the same day, and then follow up the next day and once or twice more.
		- Shows professionalism
		- Many people are busy and need a follow-up
	
	## Discussion: [[How the Militant was Built - and How it was Destroyed (2005)]]
	
- [[Socialist Alternative]] is descended from the bad parts of Militant. The ideas of Taafe weigh heavily on the organization. 
- My intervention
	- [[UK]] to [[USA]] comparison
		- Militant had 8,000 supporters at their peak. Relative to the population, this would be like if we had nearly 50,000 members here in the US. Their largest event drew 250,000 people in London. Relative to the population, that would be like if we attracted over a million people to a rally. 
		- Militant also had a large say in the Liverpool city council. In US terms, this would be like if the IMT had a large effect on the policy decisions of a city like Pheonix or Philadelphia. 
	- What we need to learn
		- Even if we got to 50,000 or larger, we can't lose our perspectives. We would still be a small organization. 
		- Our #1 priority would still be to train new layers of [[cadre]], and it would still be a mistake to get bogged down in tasks that were larger than we could handle. 
	- Socialist Alternative
		- Talking to former members in [[Seattle]], they were so caught up in selling papers and protecting Sawant that they don't do anything else. 
		- My interactions with members has shown this to be true. No attempt to discuss the ideas, 
