# Area Committee, Thursday, March 22, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
## Plan for splitting the branches
To-dos:
- Meeting location
- BC compositions
- Finance
- Papers
- Branch documentation and drives
- Branch social media accounts

## Reading group plan
We need to rebalance our commitments as we emerge from [[COVID-19]] into public work and in-person meetings. We should probably meet less frequently in the reading group, leaving more time for public work. 

## Collecting notes from branch meetings
We shouldn't do this. It generates an issue around subjectivity and it's too 'honorific' towards our leadership, who are still learning themselves. No need to immortalize our every word.

## Working in members bulletins in branch meetings
We should do the shorter points in the news updates, and more in-depth bulletins can get leadoffs if we think that's interesting.

## Proposal of Kylee and Josh for membership
Let's do it!

## Check-in on Vyom and Aadil
[[Jacob]] reached out to Vyom and asked if he wanted to set up a meeting with Jake and work through disagreements. Vyom said he was putting together a document outlining his thoughts that he wanted to send us. 

The plan is to offer reconciliation with both of them, and if they want to bring a discussion to branch then they can. They probably (and hopefully) won't.

## Branch bandwidth check-in
Claire and Drew are getting inconsistent / drained. The vibe is that the membership wants the branch to be doing more, but feel individually too drained to do anything. 