# [[IMT]] Branch, 3-20-21
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- Sarah Everard killed by a police officer in the [[UK]]. The police then proceeded to break up a vigil in her memory by force.  This is all happening in the context of a new law that aims to outlaw many forms of protest. We're going to be getting into the question of how we connect the oppression of women with our broader political perspective, so I won't get into it right now. But our British section, Socialist Appeal, was able to intervene in these protests, and were able to give speeches at some protests, and gained multiple new contacts. They also held an online national meeting on the topic, with 250 attendees. I think it's important to stay up to date on the activities of our other sections around the world, since we are firmly international in our perspective. 
- Vaccine rollout is slowly continuing in the [[USA]]. The [[UK]] is doing better, and continental Europe is doing worse. 
- The Bellingham Occupied Protest (BOP) movement in chaos. There's the homeless population and an activist layer that's gotten involved. They have a very confused political perspective but have nevertheless positive intentions. Their real mistake is the orientation towards city officials instead of the working class of Bellingham. 
- The [[Biden]] administration met with negotiators from [[China]], getting literally nothing done, just calling each other names. In other news, [[Biden]] also pulled the US Ambassador to [[Russia]]. This reflects that the US capitalist class is beginning to take a more agressive role against competitors, different from the [[Trump]] method of chaotic deal-making. 
- Verkada, a surveilance camera company, was hacked by an [[Anarchism|anarchist]] activist from Switzerland. He wanted to shed light on the fact that any employee had the ability to look through the footage of any camera on the network.

## Political Discussion - [[Is Housework an Unpaid Job (2020)]] and [[Wages Against Housework (1975)]]
- Lets just run through what would really happen if this demand was carried out
	- The capitalists would frame it as men vs women in rhetoric, and claim that paying wages for housework would decrease the wages for paid workers, which they certainly would do if it was passed.
	- The trade union bureaucracy would begin to oppose it as a negotiating tool to maintain their wages. This would further divide the working class. 
	- If it failed, it would further divide women as a political bloc from men, a fact that would immediately be leveraged by leading women in the capitalist class. 
	- If it succeeded, the capitalists would use it to leverage decreased wages of male workers to pit them against the womens movement.
	- Furthermore, it would almost force women to stay home, depending on the specific way that the wages would be distributed. The capitalists would pass this wage law with many requirements, such as not having a job, gender requirements, etc.
	- At the end of the day, we would be left with another welfare program with hoops to jump through, and we would actually be worse off, since the working class would be more confused, and more divided than they were before.