# IMT Area Committee, 3-4-21
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`TAGS:` #meeting/political 

---
## AC Election
- I want to resume work with my previous contact officer position.
- We need to think about how splitting the branches is going to go.
- JW supports Aadil for finances. He's shown good communication skills. 
- JW wants to take a step back since he's feeling burnt out. 
- I think we should discuss energy levels with the branch. It would be helpful to audit how busy everyone is both as a logistical tool, but also as a political point. It would help to bring everyone down to earth in terms of the resources of the branch.
- [[Jacob]] can take over convening meetings

## Vyom's Proposed Subgroup on Non-Marxist Theorists
- Jake's points
	- Vyom has shown a predisposition for academic Marxism.
	- We cannot let this divert the energy of the branch at a moment where we're stretched thin.
	- We need to confront these ideas *politically,* not *organizationally.*
	- The ideas that Vyom wants to introduce are all from a specific time period, the postwar US left. We should be suspicious of "new ideas" since they almost always relate to an idea that Marxism disproved long ago. 
	- We should consider switching from economics to philosophy in the reading group, and having a leadoff on the *Socialist Revolution* article [[On the Program of the Black Panther Party (2014)]]
- My points
	- I think Aadil is my focus here. Vyom is just really interested in the academic perspective, which values eclecticism and I don't think that's going to change anytime soon.
	- I think that the small echo that Vyom's ideas got from Aadil represents a weakness in our branch in terms of history. In the interest of creating a solid foundation in the ideas of Marx, Lenin, Engels, and Trotsky, we focus on the Russian revolution and the historical events associated with it. 
	- In order to solidify our branch's perspective, we should focus on integrating the method of analysis that we learn from these thinkers with more recent history, specifically the black power movement in the US, from which most of the thinkers in question are from. I think a series of historical leadoffs that bridge the gap between 1917 and today would do a good job of solidifying the political level of the branch. I agree that we shouldn't be teaching incorrect ideas during branch. But I think it's useful to critique their ideas in branch directly, rather than ignoring them given their influence on the modern [[USA|American]] left. But it's really important not to deviate from learning the ideas of Marxism directly from those thinkers. 
- Jesse's points
	- The IMT is a [[cadre]] organization, not a reading group. After a cadre is fully trained (if that's even possible) then *maybe* it's time to dive into other ideas to critique them. 
	- Diversity was listed as a threat in the SWOT discussion. This can be countered through professionalism, but we shouldn't make a fetish of increasing our diversity levels or something. That's totally heading in the direction of [[petty bourgeoisie|petty bourgeois]] [[identity politics]].