# Branch, Tuesday, July 13, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
## News updates
- [[Cuba]] protests
	- Hundreds gathered to protest lack of food, vaccines, electricity
	- Utilized by US [[media]] and rightwing elements to put forward counter-revolutionary slogans
	- The president of Cuba, Miguel Diaz-Canel, called for the masses to take to the streets and defend the revolution
	- Pro-revolutionary protests drown out counter-revolutionary, not that you would know that from the news
- US inflation in June (CPI) = 5.4% <-- highest pace in 13 years
	- Blamed on increased demand due to easing of pandemic restrictions
- Riots in [[South Africa]] -> [source](https://apnews.com/article/africa-business-johannesburg-riots-south-africa-fe49fed65c696d0e9d587b9b5ad26aca)
	- 45 dead, hundreds arrested
	- Triggered after jailing of former president, Zuma, for corruption
	- Zuma was African National Congress candidate plagued by allegations of corruption
	- Half of the population living in poverty, unemployment at 32%
- [[Haiti]] assasination developments
	- Multiple people who were involved have been found to be former or current US law enforcement informants, working for CTU, a security group based in Florida.
	- DEA, FBI informants
	- CTU owned by prominent anti-Maduro national from [[Venezuela]]

## Political discussion: SR27 leadoffs
- My leadoff on [["What Kind of Party Do We Need?" A Reply to Comrades in DSA (2021)]]
	- Intro
		- Reply to questions posed by [[DSA]] members about a previous article
	- Q: The IMT argues for a class-independent mass socialist party. What kind of party would this be? How do you define a "party"?
		- [[Marx]] and [[Engels]] were flexible, but argued for [[class independence]]
		- Movement building is [[dialectics|dialectical]] and iterative
	- Q: Does this mean we should support [[reformism|reformist]] social-democratic and labor parties?
		- Communists should be wherever workers are found
		- [[mass organizations]] and [[workers' party]] leadership = past consciousness
		- Rev current + radicalizing events --> more influence
	- Q: How should a mass party operate within the context of capitalism? Should it pursue electoral victories and try to pass reforms?
		- We seek election / reform to further class struggle
		- 57% turnout in 2020 election --> some workers still have faith in electoral system
		- We need transitional demands that mobilize workers and give them confidence
		- Totally different from political goals of [[bourgeoisie]]. 
	- Q: Would it have been possible for a mass socialist party to emerge in advance of the mass movements like the 2020 BLM uprising?
		- Yes if foundation had been laid
		- Previous failure due to lack of a class-struggle program
	- Q: Do you believe revolutionary change is possible in our lifetime?
		- 39 million in [[USA]] have favorable opinion of [[Marxism]]
		- Many revolutions, uprisings, strikes around the world
		- [US opinion polls](https://news.gallup.com/opinion/polling-matters/287459/public-opinion-review-americans-word-socialism.aspx)
			- 49% of millenials and zoomers have positive view of [[socialism]]
			- 65% of [[Democratic Party]] voters have positive view
			- Incredibly confused definition of socialism - 38% say USA is a socialist country today
- JaM's leadoff on the inflation crisis
	- Inflation up month after month
	- 2008 crisis postponed by quantitative easing
- CC's leadoff on the Tulsa Race Massacre
	- Made a good point that we can see the total collapse of [[fascism]] by the fact that American fascists often seek to build on a multi-racial foundation. 
	- Highlighted the lack of a response to the massacre from the [[unions]]. 

## Members' bulletins
- Spain TikTok success
- New Canadian center for Fightback

## Contact protocol
- New sheet column: status
	- Update after messaging
	- Dropdown
- Please give feedback
- Contact bandwidth
- Remove Ian?

## AOB
- 