# Area Committee, Thursday, July 27, 2021
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
#meeting/political 

---
# Agenda and minutes
- My points
	- Should we even have a branch drive review? I don't think it's needed. 

# World Congress discussion
- My points
	- Why weren't amendments distributed before [[2021 IMT World Congress]]?
	- When will we know results of the CC election
- JT's points
	- Small circle *mentality* is different from the fact of being a small circle. 
	- Our perspective should be a professionalization of the work, and an eye towards the future rather than the past
	- Some comrades in the IMT are living and dying for their beliefs, such as the comrades in [[Pakistan]]. 
	- After winning the ones and twos, we need to turn quantity into quality and look around for opportunities consciously. 

# Discussion on JaM stepping back
- My points
	- Forms and content
	- Reduction in organizational scaffolding
	- Centering of priorities
		- Consolidation! (political and organizational)
		- Public work!
	- Reliance on BDC and WA aggregate for structure
	- Must bring discussion to SEA branch
	- Cancel joint reading group
	- Keep aggregate?
	- Finances?
- JT's points
	- Small size --> personal pressures important
	- BDC will always remain remote, isn't meant to replace local work
	- Recommends local meetings in person
		- Threat of imbalance if we only operate online
		- We need a real-world impression
	- Recommends reading group locally
		- No need for leadoffs
		- More casual preparation
	- Recommends relaxing the backend preparations
	- Recommends prioritizing open work

# BHAM - SEA backend review
- JT's points
	- Recommends not prioritizing Box.com

# AOB
- 