# [[IMT]] Branch, 3-27-21
#meeting/political 

---
## News Updates
- There's a boat stuck in the Suez Canal.
- [[Biden]] is unlikely to pull out of Afghanistan the way [[Trump]] was going to. This signals the continuation of the standard foreign policy of [[Democratic Party]]. 
- The IMT in [[Italy]] has been active in the strike movement against Amazon. They've been connecting that struggle with the UPS struggle. 

## Political Discussion - [[On the Program of the Black Panther Party (2014)]]
The article that was sent along with this email is an excellent dive into the concrete points on the program of the Black Panthers. If anyone here didn't read it, I would encourage you to, since I'm going to focus on giving some context to the article, and cover some points that the article didn't have time to get to.

First, I'll go into a little context on the ideology of the Panthers, using quotes from *Intercommunalism*, written by Huey P. Newton during the height of the [[Black Panther Party]]. Then, I'll talk a little bit about the tactics that flowed from this ideology, and I'll wrap up with an examination of the state response to the Panthers and the lessons we have to learn from this movement.

Before I begin, I want to be very clear on why we analyze past movements, and the spirit in which we we do so. Many people rightfully look to the Black Panther Party as heroic figures, and as martyrs. They WERE heroic - but Marxists are NOT moralizers. We are engaged in the scientific analysis of the movements of the past, in order to engineer victory for the workers' movement.

It's very trendy these days to think of politics from a moralistic point of view. While it seems radical to center the experiences and perspective of the most oppressed, to allow our analysis to be warped by our moral judgements isn't scientific or revolutionary. Instead, if we really care about ending oppression and state violence, we need to move past the sort of patronizing attitude that many take, especially towards the issuses of Black oppression, and shine a light on the real nature of the problem. Marxists have to take the scientific approach to revolution, and look at what the most direct route towards [[socialism]] actually is, based on history and the theory that explains it. If we knew from history that the fastest route was to organize the homeless and the most oppressed members of humanity, we would be out there doing it. If we saw from history that organizing the very well paid workers and members of the petty bourgeoisie was the most direct way, we would be doing that instead. What we won't be doing is choosing our tactics based on a performative, moralistic attitude that departs from a serious attitude towards revolution. This is the attitude that some hold towards the Black Panthers today. Some refuse to really critique the Panthers or try and learn the lessosn that we can from their historical example. But this attitude is actually kind of disrespectful to the legacy of the Panthers, who were above all else serious, and dedicated to their mission.

Only by scientifically analyzing the Panthers can we actually honor their legacy as serious revolutionaries, who were willing to do anything and everything that they believed to be necessary to help their people. But in a scientific analysis, we have to admit that the Black Panthers failed. Not only did they fail, they were utterly and completely destroyed by [[state]]. 

This was due to a whole range of factors, but the revolutionary party has to be ready for these sorts of things. Repression and state violence are to be expected at a certain stage of events. The mistakes that the Black Panthers made certainly brought this repression on harder than it could have been, but discipline and clarity are EVEN MORE essential when the movement is in retreat than when it is advancing. If the Panthers organization had been different, with more political and tactical clarity, they could have made a tactical retreat, theorized, learned their lessons, and could have been ready for the next upswing. Instead, there are few leading Panthers who lived to analyze the events that brought the party down, and no national structure for organizing anything. 

### History of the Black Panthers' ideas
Now I'll turn to a short history of the ideological development of the Black Panthers, although this subject was covered quite well in the article. 

The Black Panthers, like all revolutionary organizations, were deeply influenced by the context in which they arose. Their context was one of deep racial strife, intense poverty, and the end of a revolutionary upswing of the working class. In the communities where the Panthers tended to operate, unemployment was rampant, as was drug abuse and poverty in general. 

Initially, the Panters had the perspective of Black Nationalism. This perspective fails to provide a way forward, since there's no reasonable context in which a new nation-state could be formed within the United States today. Even if one could be established, the newly liberated Black people of this state would find their rules simply replaced by a new class of black bourgeoisie, who would in turn be bound by the interest of international capitalism.

To their credit, the Panthers evolved out of this worldview over time. They began to approach an internationalist perspective, and called themseves revolutionary intercommunalists. 

Unfortunately, there were still deep issues with this framing. Their definition of a community was quite vague. In [[Intercommunalism (1974)]], Newton describes it as such: 

> We say that the world today is a dispersed collection of communities. A community is different from a nation. A community is a small unit with a comprehensive collection of institutions that serve to exist a small group of people.

Personally, this type of phrase reminds me of the talk that I heard during my time in poltical science classes in college. It's the kind of vague, bourgeois academic framing that doesn't really get down to the concrete, material reality in the way that Marxism does. 
 
This framing lacks a class perspective, and leads to an attitude of self-reliance and isolation of the Panthers within their pre-defined community of urban Black neighborhoods. Even though the Panthers claimed to be *inter* communalists, they failed to enter into serious work in the communities directly bordering their own, that of the white working class in the rest of the United States. 

This lack of a class perspective is evident in Newton's analysis of the black petty and large bourgeoisie. Here's a quote from him in *Intercommunalism*, that I've shortened somewhat: 

> The concept of the black bourgeoisie is something of an illusion. It is a fantasy bourgeoisie, and this is true of most of the white bourgeoisie as well. There are very few controllers even in the white middle class... I do not recognize the black bourgeoisie as different from any other exploited people. They are living in a fantasy world, and the main thing is to instill [[class consciousness]], to point out their real interests, their objective and true interests, just as our white progressive and radical friends have to do in the white community.

Newton grasps that there are certain layers of the petty bourgeoisie that have little REAL power, and can even come over to the side of the workers. But Newton seems be unable to distinguish between these members of the petty bourgeoisie and the downright reactionary ones. This is a real issue, since Oprah simply does not have the same interests as a Black worker. This lack of clarity leads to confusion when interacting with different layers of the community. The petty bourgeoisie can certainly be revolutionary, and a skillful use of their energy would be really helpful during revolution. However, to attempt to "instill [[class consciousness]]" in the black bourgeoisie would not only be a waste of time, but would be very politically confusing to the members of the working class that are influenced by the Panthers. 

A Marxist party needs to be CLEAR above all else. We need the workers to realize that they have the power right in their two hands to change society. As long as the working class keeps looking to the bourgeoisie for solutions, the task of revolution is impossible. It's this kind of confusion that's set us back so many times, and unfortunately the Panthers are feeding into it by claiming that black members of the ruling class have the same interests as any other oppressed people. 

### History of the Black Panthers' tactics
As I turn towards analyzing the tactics of the Black Panthers, we should be clear that tactics flow directly from theory. The theory of the Black Panthers, particularly their economic theory, led them to primarily organize among the [[lumpenproletariat]], sometimes called the lumpen. The lumpen elements of society are the chronically unemployed, the homeless, and those in and out of prison. These are people whose relationship with production of any kind is very shaky if it exists at all. 

Remember, Marxists shouldn't base our methods on [[moralism]]. Just because the lumpen are the most oppressed elements of [[USA|American]] society doesn't mean they're the most revolutionary, or the most poised to take power. In fact, the lumpen tend to be not only a smaller group than the working class by a big margin, they tend to be hard to weld together and create class [[class consciousness]] in. 

But the economic theory of Newton stated that as technology made advances, more and more automation would reduce the need for workers. This would increase the size of the lumpenproletariat more and more, until it became so large and so angry that it could overwhelm the state and topple capitalism. 

We can look to Marxist economics to see the error here. The economy requires not only workers, but consumers as well. We can see that as automation progresses, and the bourgeoisie are paying out in wages less to the working class than the income they plan to recieve from that class, that this leads to a crisis of overproduction. These periodic crises reset the system, causing this lumpen-apocalypse to be put off again and again.

The statistics bear this fact out. When [[Huey P. Newton]] wrote *Intercommunalism* in 1974, the labor force participation rate was 61.3%. In 2019, this rate was 63.2% even though the US economy is far more automated than it was, not to mention outsourcing eliminating lots of jobs that were common in the 70s. 

Moving on from that tangent, let's turn to the other tactics that the Black Panthers employed. Most of their efforts were some form or another of mutual aid. 

### [[mutual aid]]
-The idea of mutual aid is that by creating programs that fill the void left by capitalism's inability to meet human need, revolutionaries can connect with the masses and build solidarity, as well as demonstrate that there is a way to organize society "outside of" [[capitalism]]. 

This idea is embraced, paridoxically, by almost all [[Anarchism|anarchists]], as well as some [[Stalinism|Stalinists]] and [[Maoism|Maoists]]. But fundamentally, this outlook shows a serious misunderstanding of the way that class consiousness develops, and the way in which the masses draw revolutionary conclusions. 

There's a reason that [[Lenin]] didn't spend his time running soup kitchens for the impoverished masses in [[Russia]]. It isn't the job of the revolutionary party to kick start the revolution, by telling the masses that another world is possible. That's a seriously [[idealism|idealist]] conception of how people's views change. 

We have to remain firm in our [[dialectical materialism|dialectical materialist]] perspective here. The forces of Marxism are tiny, even under the best of circumstances. The influence of Marxists is never going to stand up to the force of [[media]], the state, and the general interia of traidition. Luckily, we are NOT living in a battleground of ideas competing for space like this! We know that ideas change on the basis of EVENTS! We can rely on capitalism to provide these events for us. The crashes, abject suffering, and evident inequality are lessons enough for the working class to begin to feel anger at their situation. What's needed is not a group to force people to turn against capitalism, but a group of consolidated Marxists who can give a logic and a voice to these emotions. 

By spending so much of their resources attempting to fill the giant hole that capitalism fails to, the Panthers lacked an emphasis on political consolidation. This made their organization easier to divide, and caused them to make all the other mistakes that cost so many members their very lives, eventually running the group into the ground.

### Educational institute
To be fair, the Panthers did have soemthing they called the ideological institue, where they taught about 100 members of the lumpenproletariat topics such as math, literacy, and political theory. This is similar to what [[Bolsheviks]] would sometimes do, setting up incognito political cells within factories using the pretext of educational classes. I think the Panthers should have poured more resources into this sort of stuff. 

### Bearing arms
Another iconic tactic of the Panthers was to open-carry weapons in defiance of the police. While Marxists are NOT pacifists, and believe that the working class must defend itself by force if necessary, we understand this as a response to a specific situation. The arming of a revolutionary organization is something that should only be done under extremely advanced circumstances. Otherwise, we're sliipping into adventurism. Adventurism is the failure to take the real state of the movement into account, and instead to demand actions from the movement which it cannot fufill. 

Of course, certain actions must be taken to protect the party from the attacks that the capitalists will inflict. But the best defense isn't guns and rifles, it's our support from the working class. More on that later. 

The Panthers had the perspective of direct confrontation with the state. While Marxists also have this perspective in the abstract, we understand that we can only engage in that kind of confrontation at the correct time, when the workers are ready for such a battle. To try and confront the state before that time would be suicide, and we will soon see that for the Panthers, suicide is exactly what it amounted to. 

### Effectiveness and state response
Now I'm going to turn to the state response to the Black Panther Party. Before I get into what actually happened, I want to reinforce the idea that repression is a reflection of the NEEDS of the state in a given moment, not the CHARACTER of the state. What I mean by this is that the state will do what it HAS to do in order to survive. Many bourgeois analyists counterpose the American state with states like [[Iran]] or [[North Korea]], which curtail individual rights more than our state does, and say that this makes out state fundamentally different or better. This couldn't be farther from the truth. 

We can see in the American state's response to the Panthers that this group, despite their confused perspective, was a real threat! Otherwise, they never would have resorted to the kinds of tactics that they used to destroy the group. They sent agents into the organization to spy, and to create ideological divisions on purpose. Because of the big differences in outlook between the various layers of the party, this was a possibility. 

They also resorted to direct murder of the leaders. I'm sure I don't need to remind comrades that [[Fred Hampton]] was outright assassinated by the police, and there are other examples as well. 

In order to examine why the state is willing and able to use such direct means against some groups, but has to restrain itself when dealing with other groups, we have to look at the relationship of these groups to the advanced members of the working class, and the working class in general. 

The Black Panthers were not so connected with the working class at all. There's a reason that the state doesn't send armed police to shoot striking workers, like they would kill Panthers. The state won't risk the backlash from the workers that would come in the event of that kind of repression. Of course, this can and does change, but this was the situation in the US in the 70s and today. 

Take the events of [[June 2020 uprising]] in [[Seattle]] for an example of the restraint that the state has to use when dealing with the working class. In June, when tens of thousands were in the streets of Seattle protesting, the Seattle city council came under heavy fire for the crowd control tactics that the police were using, such as tear gas. Because of this pressure, the police were prohibited from using tear gas, and still are today. 

Look at that relative to the behavior that the police were able to get away with (with no consequences) in September, when [[Jacob]], Jeff, and I attended a march on the police union headquarters. Since the direct support from the main body of the working class was declining, the police were free to directly assault the protestors. This was because of the smaller size of the crowd, but also the fact that the police knew that there would be less public backlash, since [[media]] could paint these protestors as anarchists or looters.

The same applies to the Panthers. Since the Panthers didn't spend very much time sinking deep roots in the American working class, it was relatively easy for the bourgeois media to isolate them, especially because of their provocative stances and tactics, which the working class didn't relate to at that time. 

In other circumstances, the bearing of arms and direct confrontation with the police could have been very popular, and could have worked to rally the working class for the final battle with the state. But the US in the 70s was NOT [[Russia]] in 1917, or Spain in the 1930s. The working class was simply not in the position to declare open conflict with the state. 

### Conclusion
Due in part to this isolation from the working class, and the threat that they posed, so many of the Black Panthers' leaders were framed for crimes that they didn't commit, or outright killed by the state. This is really a historical tragedy for the American left. If the bright minds of this movement were able to live past their twenties, we can't imagine what sorts of developments they could have helped create. Instead, these leaders effectively threw themselves against the iron wall of the state over and over, until their organization cracked under the pressure. 

If the Panthers had made a tactical retreat, and focused on theoretical consolidation to explain their inability to stand up to the police, we could be in a very different position today. We would have a rich theoretical tradition to rely upon, and the organization of the Panthers or Fred Hampton's Rainbow Coalition could be touchstones for segments of the working class. Imagine the events of last summer if the Black Panthers had spent 30+ years training a network of dedicated revolutionaries across the United States!

Instead, Fred Hampton was only 21 when he was assassinated. By this time, he had risen rapidly within the ranks of the Panthers, and brokered a ceasefire between Chicago's largest street gangs, cutting across ethnic divide and prioritizing class solidarity. He was in the process of creating what he called the "Rainbow Coalition," a group of multi-ethnic organizations that could work together to cut across racism as a tool of the ruling class. 

For comparison with another great revolutionary, Lenin was 47 when the events of 1917 occured. If he had been killed by the Tsarist state at 21, he would be known as a legal aide who helped to translate [[The Communist Manifesto (1848)]] into Russian and attended some study circles not much more prestigious than this one. 

Because of the tactical errors made by the Black Panthers, and the severe state repression that followed, we'll never know what Fred Hampton may heve gone on to do with the rest of his life, but it's our responsibility to start today where he ended, and honor the revolutionary legacy of the Black Panthers. We do this not by mindlessly repeating their mistakes, but by applying a scientific analysis to their situation, so that we can learn from it while avoiding those mistakes.

It's often said that Marxists function as the historical memory of the working class, and the memory of the Panthers needs to be a clear one if we are to actually achieve liberation, not just for the Black community, but for the global working class.

### Sum Up
- Organizing the lumpenproletariat. Economic analysis. 
- Go more into adventurism and ultraleftism. 
	- Lenin said that ultraleftism is the penalty the movement pays for opportunism. 
- Anti-moralism
	- [[identity politics]] fundamentally has a root in shame, and in justification on a moral basis along all steps of the process. 
	- It ascribes moral value to oppression, and views the most oppressed as the most revolutionary, when often the inverse can be true. Those with no social power have no social power. 
	- Morality has no place in a scientific analysis. 
- Marxist approach to racism
	- Race and ethnicity, as well as gender and sexuality, in fact all noticeable differences between people, exist as fault lines in the working class.
	- The tremors of anger and pain caused by capitalist society funnel anger through these fault lines, and the capitalists actually encourage anger to flow along these lines.
	- The idea of overcoming racism by focusing only on people of color will have no real effect on racism. 
	- Instead, we need to cut ACROSS these fault lines, so that we can remove the actual source of the pain and anger, which is the artificial scarcity created by capitalism. 

> “If a white man wants to lynch me, that's his problem. If he's got the power to lynch me, that's my problem. Racism is not a question of attitude; it's a question of power. Racism gets its power from capitalism. Thus, if you're anti-racist, whether you know it or not, you must be anti-capitalist. The power for racism, the power for sexism, comes from capitalism, not an attitude.”
> - Carmaichel

- Nuanced critique
	- Lenin said that ultraleftism is the penalty the movement pays for opportunism. 
	- Marx called for a "ruthless criticism of everything existing."
	- Postive demands! 
- Why we study historical theory
	- The more things change the more they stay the same
	- We fight over these issues over and over again. In Russia, in Spain, everywhere we look, the left has to make these same decisions. Who will fight the revolution? What should our orientation be? Does the revolutionary party have to mobilize this class, or does capitalism do that?
	- All these questions have answers, and we can figure out those answers before it's our turn to face these questions. But we can't wait until our number gets called to figure it out. 