# Branch, Friday, January 28, 2022
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-01-28]]
#meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- Bridge collapse highlights inability of the bourgeois order to even maintain itself
- [[Ukraine]] war bluffing demonstrate ultimately that Putin's regime is backed into a corner
- London Underground workers vote to strike

# ☭ The history of the union movement
- Union movement is declining since the 70s
- 1947: 47% unionized, nowadays it's like 10%
- Why is labor in decline?
	- Bad leadership: class collaboration, refusing to go outside the narrow labor laws
	- Refusal to build a labor party, vesting support in [[Democratic Party|Democrats]]. 
- How was it built in the first place?
	- Socialists, anarchists, and communists built them
	- Good leadership: willingness to fight, refusal to collaborate
- What can we do to reverse the decline?
	- Radical cadre leadership can have outsized effects on the movement
	- Industrial unionism > craft unionism
- My intervention
	- [x] [[Institutional leadership reflects the prior period's mood]], and this process is at work in the unions. Marxists must apply the dialectical method to events. 
	- [x] Need for somebody to actually break with the DNC and break the dam ([[Marxism isn't deterministic]]).
	- [x] The forces of Marxism are small, but we should recognize the exact position to apply our forces. This is why we call for the labor movement to embrace their political role and abandon the DNC ([[The dialectic of freedom and necessity]]). 
	- [x] Decrease of 0.5% in total union members from 2020 to 2021, however it will take time for statistics to reflect the changing mood of the movement. 

# 📥 Updates on the work in each branch
- My leadoff
	- Out of the 6 members of the branch right now, only 2 were here one year ago. 
	- Some have left permanently, others have stepped back, we're still growing at a relatively fast pace.
	- [[Quantity transforms into quality]] as it relates to patient work leading to explosive growth
	- External work: UW, capitol hill (mention sects), other neighborhoods, future labor movement work
	- Internal work: starting a Marxist Classics reading group soon. 

# Financial appeal
- My leadoff
	- 13 full-timers at the IMT in the US. There are around 400 members, so that means if we want to be able to pay each full-timer $30k, we're each responsible for $80 monthly!