# Branch, Saturday, April 30
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-04-30]]
#meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- Worst month for markets since 2008
- Record heatwave in [[India]] and [[Pakistan]]: 15 degrees above normal temperatures for this time of year, its well over 100 degrees. 
- "Don't say woke" bill showcases infighting in the ruling class over the use of identity politics to divide the class. This isn't a principled disagreement, it's motivated by profit seeking on the part of companies like Disney. 

# ☭ [[How the Militant was Built - and How it was Destroyed (2005)]]
- Why do we care?
	- Our aim as a [[cadre]] organization is to prepare a skeletal structure that can act as a backbone for a mass movement when the time comes. The time *did* come for [[Militant]], but they failed and we must understand why!
- What is a mass workers' organization?
	- Must have organic links with the working class, usually expressed in trade union engagement
	- Must be a more-or-less democratic organization
	- The [[Democratic Party]] has *neither* of these qualities
- What do Marxists call on the mass organizations to do?
	- [[class independence]]
	- Class struggle policies
	- Fight against bureaucracy
- The experience of Corbyn
	- Lack of a theoretical perspective resulted in confusion over the Brexit issue
	- Corbyn refused to purge the party of his internal enemies who sabatoged Labour candidates nationwide
- How did the Militant rise?
	- [[Quantity transforms into quality]], and [[James Clear describes a "plateau of latent potential"]]: patient, slow work transformed into giant leaps
	- [[Workers turn to their historical organizations during crisis]]. In this case it was the [[Labour Party (UK)]]
- The leadership strikes back
	- The mass organizations develop [[dialectics|dialectically]] - [[Institutional leadership reflects the prior period's mood]], and [[Proletarian leaders become subject to alien class forces]]. First the leadership is dragged leftward, then they counter-attack, and so on. 
	- “...with my vote, I want to support the reformists in the same way as the rope supports a hanged man- that the impending establishment of a government of the [reformists] will prove that I am right, will bring the masses over to my side, and will hasten the political death of the reformists, just as was the case with their kindred spirits in Russia and Germany.” - [[Lenin]] in [[Left Wing Communism an Infantile Disorder (1920)]]
	- Despite counter-measures, Militant enjoyed near-exponential growth in this period, reaching 3,500 members in 1982, and there were two Militant members of Parliament. 
- Liverpool city council
	- The city council was controlled by Militant, who chose to reject the austerity budget demanded by the Tories. 
	- This shows that a militant, class struggle approach can succeed where reformism and class-collaboration fail. The reformists in Labour always got power, and then meekly put through austerity, claiming that there was no alternative. Militant had nothing in common with their cowardice.
- The poll tax and internal issues
	- Thatcher and the Tories sought to implement a flat-tax on property per resident, regardless of valuation, a massive assault on the [[proletariat|working class]] of the [[UK]]. 
	- [[Marxists must avoid substitutionalism]]
	- On the day of the introduction of the tax, Militant organized a 250k strong rally in London (would be like a 1.5 million strong protest in [[USA]] today)
	- Membership maxed out at 8,000 (would be like 45,000 now relative to the population). This was 3.5% of total Labour membership. 
- The Scottish turn
	- The Militant majority moved in an [[ultraleftism|ultraleft]] direction, believing that they didn't have to suffer the abuse of the leadership. This failed, and the organization they became, [[SPEW]], has only lost infuence and support ever since.

# 📥 Planning May Day intervention
- Meeting at 12:30 tomorrow, at 611 20th Ave S. 

# AOB
- Finalizing tabling schedule
	- Session A: after branch from 12-1:30 (all except [[HM]], Patrick, Freeman)
	- Session B: Friday at 4 (those unable to attend after-branch tabling)
- Financial appeal from the Central Committee
	- The International Center is trying to purchase an office in London so that we won't be under the control of a landlord as we become more prominent - the Pakistan section has been evicted in the past during stormy events, and we don't want that the be an issue in the future
	- Our contribution goal towards the Center this year is going to be $360,000, with a goal of raising $200 per comrade in the organization
	- Let's come back to this later, but we should all think about ways that we can raise money for the group

# Next meeting 
Since JM cannot attend next week, I should recommend that we push his leadoff and hold a strategic planning meeting next week, centering on consolidation. 