# Branch, Saturday, February 12, 2022
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-02-12]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- "Freedom convoy" in [[Canada]]
	- Movement of truckers led primarily by "owner-operators" who have a [[petty bourgeoisie|petty bourgeois]] character. They're blockading government headquarters in an attempt to get the state to rescind the pandemic health measures. 
- Afghan central bank funds
	- The US froze the $7 billion in assets of the Afghan central bank as the Taliban seized control of the country, will now split it between a fund for the families of 9/11 victims and a fund for humanitarian aid which will no doubt line the pockets of western NGOs before any of it gets back to its rightful place in Afghanistan. 
- Protests in Seattle right now
	- Students protesting at an Amazon facility in response to workplace deaths in Illinois after a tornado. 

# ☭ Parasitical Landlordism and the Marxist Theory of Rent
- My intervention
	- Why do Marxists study economics?
	- We can see how [[The ruling ideas tend to be those of the ruling class]], in the fact that rent went from more respectable than capitalist investment under [[feudalism]], and then the situation was reversed as the [[bourgeoisie]] took power. As the landed ruling class melted with the industrial, it became respectable again.
	- Who is more progressive, capitalist or landlord?
	- It's interesting to note the process of [[combined and uneven development]] here. The [[UK]] never had a clean break with feudalism, combining some features of it into a capitalist economy. 
	- What would it be like to abolish private property today?
- Interventions from others
	- Only 7% of millenials own their own homes today
	- What is our familiarity with the Seattle tenants' union?
	- What are the contradictions of rent and landlordism?
	- How has this affected the average worker in Seattle?
	- We say rent should be capped at 10% of wages, but why keep it at all?
	- Rent increases the cost of production of the worker, therefore increasing the price of labor-power

# 📥 Proposal of election slate
- Proposing myself for the branch secretary and finance officer roles
- Proposing Chris Crane for contacts officer
- Proposing [[Josh Creech]] for press secretary

# 📥 Finalizing reading group day and time
- A few times during the week where 5 out of 7 could attend a reading group
- First option: Monday or Thursday at 7:15 pm
	- Poliana and Johnny said they couldn't make it
	- JCE can do Thursday!
- Second option: Wednesday at 11:45 am
	- Josh and Freeman can't make it
- Third option: Friday at 3:30 pm
	- Chris and Freeman unable to make it
- Last option: alternating branches and reading groups on Saturday
	- Not a great option because I wanted this reading group to add to the work we're doing as a branch, not take away from the established activities. 

# AOB
- Should we adopt a once-monthly update from each officer? Press could update on paper sales per month, possible proposals for paper sale scheduling etc. Contacts officer could report on number of total contacts, etc.
- Possibility of returning to in-person activity
	- I know this will make it more difficult for many comrades but we have to make the sacrifices needed to build a real world organization
	- Reading group may be able to remain online
- Protest of the killing of Amir Locke downtown at 3 PM. Super short-notice but if another comrade can make it, I would be interested in seeing what's going on. 

# Next meeting 
- Cancelled for next weekend due to Fightback Winter School! 
- Political topic: 
- Organizational topic: 