---
origin: 2022-06-07
date: 2022-06-11
kind: branch
with: SEA branch comrades
---
# Branch, Saturday June 11
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-06-11]]
#meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- [[UK]]: PM Boris Johnson barely escapes vote of no confidence by the Tories, signalling a divide in the party. The ruling class no longer sees a safe strategy for governing the next period, and bitterly argue about who should take command, not only in the UK but worldwide. 
- [[Iran]]: Metropol Towers collapsed ten days ago, 120 dead or wounded. Gov't called national day of mourning, memorial turned into a protest against government corruption in the construction sector. 100 arrests so far, with riot police using rubber bullets to dissapate the crowds on multiple occasions. Demonstrates that any major event can ignite the tensions running under the surface. 
- Summit of the Americas: total farce as [[Cuba]], [[Venezuela]], and [[Colombia]] excluded, causing lots of abstention from other delegations. 
- Hearings for Jan 6 events are ongoing. 

# ☭ Intro to dialectical materialism
- Context of the article
	- Introduction to a great summary of [[dialectics]], [[In Defense of Marxism (1942)#The ABC of materialist dialectics|ABC of materialist dialectics]] by [[Trotsky]].  
- Why study philosophy?
	- Where [[Marxism]] is under attack, the philosophy of [[dialectical materialism]] always comes under fire because it lies at the center of Marxism
	- "The Marxist doctrine is omnipotent because it is true." - [[Lenin]]
- What does materialism mean?
	- Early [[UK|English]] [[materialism]]
		- [[To Engels, English materialism became one-sided]]
- What is the dialectic method?
	- Formal logic as developed by [[Aristotle]]
		- [[The law of identity is the foundation of formal logic]]
	- Limits of formal logic
		- [[Nothing exists outside its context]]
		- [[The law of identity has its limitations]]
		- [[Change is omnipresent]]
	- Dialectics
		- [[Hegel]] developed the [[dialectics|dialectic]], but based in [[idealism]] - he argued that it was the evolution and interdependence of ideas that generated progress
		- [[For Hegel, to be real is to be necessary]]
		- "Dialectical thought," explained Trotsky, "is related to vulgar thinking [formal logic] in the same way that a motion picture is related to a still photograph. The motion picture does not outlaw the still photograph but combines a series of them according to the laws of motion."
	- [[Marx]]
		- [[Marx inverted Hegel's dialectic]], basing it on a materialist conception of the universe
	- Fundamental laws of dialectics
		- [[Quantity transforms into quality]]
		- [[Opposites require each other]]
		- [[Action causes reaction]] ([[negation of the negation]])
- Advantages of the dialectical method
	- Defends us against sectarianism and opportunism
		- Sectarians view the world as static, refusing to engage with impure institutions or groups
		- Opportunists view the world as static and are too cowardly to let go of the coattails of the powerful
	- Allows us to analyze change
		- [[The revolutionary party acts as a catalyst]]
		- Never going to replace investigation and [[data]] collection, but can provide accurate hypotheses that will guide our investigation

# 📥 Overview of branch roles and responsibilities
- Self-selection and role of leadership
	- The branch is only as organized as its members
	- We have to recognize that [[Leadership develops organically]], and we should elevate people to positions of responsibility as soon as possible
	- This starts with taking minutes, chairing meetings, and eventually extends to taking more responsbility such as one of these elected positions
- Branch secretary
	- Represents political and organizational leadership in the branch, coordinates leadoffs, sends draft branch agendas, stays in touch with a central committee member
- Contacts officer
	- "Custom" position for our branch, this comrade must keep an accurate list of the contacts that our branch is in touch with, distribute them for follow-up, and ensure prompt follow up
- Finance officer
	- Tracks income and spending for branch activities. Keeps up to date records of dues collection, paper sales, bookstore purchases, etc. 
- Press officer
	- Responsible for mobilizing comrades to transmit our ideas into the world. Coordinates paper sales, delivers reports of income to the finance officer

# Taking a break for the first four weeks of July?
- My proposal: cancel branch and reading group for the first four weeks of July
- HAM will be gone all of July
- FT will be busy in July too

# AOB
- HAM wants to compile a list of names and initals
- HAM wants to send out another when2meet for the branch time
- Ava and Travis need to do MFA for Box access.
- FT's other organization is working to organize workers. Through UNITE HERE local 8 hospitality union
	- Picketing on June 16 at Virginia Mason, at 5pm
	- HAM cannot attend, me and FT will try to attend. JC and ARG may attend

# Next meeting 
- Political topic: ARG will choose a topic
- Organizational topic: 
- HAM would like to do minutes