# One-on-one with JT
`DATE:` [[2022-04-12]]
`WITH:` [[JT]]
#meeting

---
# ‚úÖ Topics to discuss
- [ ] New member Travis is a landlord. How do we approach these kinds of things?
- [ ] Does the M-C-M circuit emerge at the beginning of capitalist production, or its developed form?
- [ ] Does the social reproduction cost set the "natural minimum wage" for the laborer?

# ‚úèÔ∏è Notes
- Box integrations
- There's now a tech stack that we have to onboard people into
	- Ensure that membership change forms are being filled out
- Central Committee report-back
	- Discussed US perspectives, recruitment, size, finances, fall offensive, regional priorities, press sales
	- Overall message was that we must build. Our turnover has increased this quarter, partially as a result of returning to in-person work. We remain net positive in recruitment. 
- Resolution on recruitment is coming down the pipe, will make a good leadoff soon
- Our Starbucks intervention should keep proportion in mind - we cannot break into the labor movement at our size and situation right now. 
- Students as a social base are more open to spending their time on us, but we need to work harder on engaging with them

# Action items
- Make sure JCR isn't using a school email for Box
- Begin sending welcome emails to new comrades, he will forward me a welcome email template
- Begin a short point on contacts at branch

# üóì Next meeting
- Date:
- Topic: 