---
origin: 2022-07-22
---
# Branch Committee
on [[2022-07-25]]
with [[JC]], [[CrC]], [[JT]]

---
- Organizational allegations from the [open letter](https://jamiegraham.substack.com/p/why-i-left-fightback)
	- Incident 1
		- Sexual harassment at post-event social was allegedly brushed off by EC as a joke, and no effort to remove the abuser from the situation was made.
		- EC response: event was introduced to EC as a joke by accuser, therefore wasn't treated as a serious case of harassment. The accuser later asked that it not be looked into.
	- Incident 2
		- Alex allegedly traumatized the accuser by 'demanding' they tell him what happened regarding abuse by Jamie's ex-partner and Fightback member, and covered for the abuser, then yelled at Jamie. The abuser was allegedly not expelled, merely suspended for a year if he paid dues during that time and went to therapy.
		- EC response: the abuser was expelled the day following an initial investigation. The only way for the abuser to be readmitted was with Jamie's permission.
	- Incident 3
		- Jamie alleges that a high-profile member of Fightback was engaging in racism, homophobia, etc and this behavior was ignored by the EC. Furthermore, she alleges that branch was held in the perpetrator's home during the 6 months he was under investigation for sexual assault.
		- EC response: the victim who came forward was ambivalent on whether investigation should occur, delaying the process which was a mistake. When investigation began, no Control Commission was requested, which was later instituted. The perp was suspended 5 days after the Control C. concluded his guilt.
- Political allegations
	- [Climate change denial](https://web.archive.org/web/20170822200819/http://www.marxist.com/global-warming-socialist-perspective-part-one.htm)
		- This was the first article out of a four part series that clearly reflected an active debate within the IMT. By the end of the four articles, the tone changes and reflects the fact that the original author is in the wrong. Very opportunistic and cherry-picking to choose this article.
	- [Homophobia by Grant](https://athousandflowers.net/2013/08/05/equality-is-gay-a-homophobic-history-of-the-left/)
		- The author asserts that Grant said that homosexuality would pass away under socialism. No citation of this whatsoever, and even specified that [[Militant]] never held a homophobic position. Regardless of if he did, that has no bearing on the ability of Fightback to handle sexual assault cases.
	- [Insuffcient antiracism by Militant](http://review31.co.uk/article/view/153/the-limits-of-colour-blind-marxism)
		- This is literally just an [[identity politics]] argument, claiming that Militant were bad because they didn't support affirmative action.
- Further developments
	- A Discord server was formed immediately after the letter emerged, ran by a newish member of Fightback who had a following on Twitch. It was initally named "Save Fightback," and within this server, there was a platform of demands drawn up, and a plan to coordinate a campaign throughout Fightback to replace the entire Executive Committee via an emergency congress. This server was invite-only, and made up of the supporters of this viewpoint exclusively. I was invited, but told the participants that the issue should be brought to branch and discussed in an open and democratic way instead of drawing up a battle plan to ambush the rest of the comrades.
	- In my opinion, this constituted a secret faction, which is unhealthy. Some claimed that this discord server was shut down with the threat of expulsion, but the only messages I saw in the last days were related to a feeling that not enough of the membership agreed with them for them to move forward.
- Need for an understanding of [[democratic centralism]] in the concrete (related to Freeman leaving the branch somewhat)
	- We should have guidelines for faction formation and in-branch disagreements, as well as the concrete rules of democratic centralism in the IMT. Having unwritten rules leads to confusion and accusations by others that we're a cult, we engage in groupthink, etc
	- We should also accept that the formation of the discord was motivated in part by a sense that there was a lack of cross-branch communication in formal channels, something that could perhaps be avoided. I'm not sure how we could go about this, since online forums are a terrible way to communicate. But in my opinion, we ought to avoid a situation where branches are sealed off from each other, which is a talking point of our critics already. Having unwritten rules about where and when we can communicate with each other plays into this perception
- My conclusions
	- I can't speak to the back-and-forth between Jamie and the Canadian EC. I'm not a member there, and I don't know what the atmosphere is within the branches, the degree of drinking which is alleged by Jamie, or the personal attitudes of the members of the EC.
	- What I *can* speak to is the fact that I still believe that the IMT is a democratic organization, and that changes to the leadership can be made by the rank-and-file if need be. I know some comrades on the current Control Commission personally, and I have the utmost faith in their ability to come to truthful conclusions.

# Discussion
- Interventions by [[JT]]
	- Tempting to react emotionally / based on social media
	- Tended to affect terminally online comrades and branches with less real-world activity
	- Political attacks will always be anchored in a factual statement, just like the open letter was
	- The blog post only names [[Ted Grant]], [[Alan Woods]], and Alex Grant (the leader of the Canadian section)
	- On the slate system: when electing a CC, we're electing people based on their organizational characteristics, not necessarily their political ideas. We all share the same political platform
	- Critics said that the resolution given to the branches by the Canadian EC was a sign of bureaucratic centralism, but it was just a request that the undeclared faction cease any sabotage of the group via withholding dues, etc.
	- Factions
		- When we turn to [[In Defense of Marxism (1942)]], the minority wanted factional rights such as sending bulletins, having space in the paper, etc
		- Trotsky shoots these things down since they don't have enough support and there's therefore no need for a more wide-ranging discussion on the level of a faction
		- We don't want to promote factionalism, it's really a last resort before a split
		- We shouldn't reach out across sections to try to form an opposition within the IMT
	- On Khawer Khan's resignation
		- He was a political equal to JT, and they were friends
		- He resigned, was not expelled (he would have likely been expelled)
		- The bay branch is still undergoing clarification about why KK was expelled, they're taking it hard
		- KK was granted a hearing by the International Secretariat
		- Khawer sent messages to somebody on the Discord indicating that he was a CC member in the US section. He tried to get information on who is on the Canadian CC, which wasn't appropriate - such info is sensitive and shouldn't be back-channeled.
		- Khawer proceeded to explain that he was breaching democratic centralism, and told the recipient to keep it a secret. Obviously strike two. He knew he was breaking the rules
		- Went on to recommend strategies for the Discord users on how to remove the Canadian leadership, suspending Alex Grant and place him under investigation
- Interventions by [[JC]]
	- Seen lots of debate over social media
	- Interested in a discussion on the slate system
	- Ordering another bundle of papers
- Interventions by [[CrC]]
	- Proletarian party isn't model for [[dictatorship of the proletariat|workers' state]], it's a tool that we use to get there
	- Frustrating that Freeman left without any discussion, seemed like an excuse to split from the branch
- My additional comments
	- If it's not permissible to form an opposition within the IMT via reaching out across branches or sections, how have they been formed historically?

---