---
origin: 2022-07-26
date: 2022-08-01
kind: branch
with: SEA branch comrades
---
# Branch, Monday, August 1
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-08-01]]
#meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- 

# Discussion on Fightback allegations
- Intro
	- Need for our group to take allegations seriously and look at them concretely - I wouldn't be part of a group that doesn't take sexual assault seriously, I've prevented predators from joining the branch in the past and would do so no matter the political damages
	- However -- we can't jump to conclusions without examining the evidence in the case
- Note on how toxic social media is about this issue
- Brief outline of the allegations against Fightback leadership
	- Incident 1
		- Sexual harassment at post-event social was allegedly brushed off by EC as a joke, and no effort to remove the abuser from the situation was made.
		- EC response: event was introduced to EC as a joke by accuser, therefore wasn't treated as a serious case of harassment. The accuser later asked that it not be looked into.
	- Incident 2
		- Alex allegedly traumatized the accuser by 'demanding' they tell him what happened regarding abuse by Jamie's ex-partner and Fightback member, and covered for the abuser, then yelled at Jamie. The abuser was allegedly not expelled, merely suspended for a year if he paid dues during that time and went to therapy.
		- EC response: the abuser was expelled the day following an initial investigation. The only way for the abuser to be readmitted was with Jamie's permission.
	- Incident 3
		- Jamie alleges that a high-profile member of Fightback was engaging in racism, homophobia, etc and this behavior was ignored by the EC. Furthermore, she alleges that branch was held in the perpetrator's home during the 6 months he was under investigation for sexual assault.
		- EC response: the victim who came forward was ambivalent on whether investigation should occur, delaying the process which was a mistake. When investigation began, no Control Commission was requested, which was later instituted. The perp was suspended 5 days after the Control C. concluded his guilt.
- My feelings on the above
	- It would be abhorrent to deny that abuse took place, but we should be specific about the allegations. The Canadian leadership is accused of acting too slowly in investigating the first incident, accused of forcing a victim to recount their abuse in the second incident, and accused of not taking an investigation seriously enough in the third incident. In my opinion, all three of these were serious mistakes made by the Canadian Executive Committee, that should lead to changes in the way that they operate. 
	- HOWEVER that is not the conclusion of this blog post. Instead, the author moves on to a number of political conclusions that I simply don't think are valid or flow from the incidents above...
- Overview of political conclusions of the blog post
	- [Climate change denial](https://web.archive.org/web/20170822200819/http://www.marxist.com/global-warming-socialist-perspective-part-one.htm)
		- This was the first article out of a four part series that clearly reflected an active debate within the IMT. By the end of the four articles, the tone changes and reflects the fact that the original author is in the wrong. Very opportunistic and cherry-picking to choose this article.
	- [Homophobia by Grant](https://athousandflowers.net/2013/08/05/equality-is-gay-a-homophobic-history-of-the-left/)
		- The author asserts that Grant said that homosexuality would pass away under socialism. No citation of this whatsoever, and even specified that [[Militant]] never held a homophobic position. Regardless of if he did, that has no bearing on the ability of Fightback to handle sexual assault cases. The three citations for this do not include any evidence that Militant ever held such a position, merely infer that they must have been anti-gay since they placed an emphasis on class rather than identity.
	- [Insuffcient antiracism by Militant](http://review31.co.uk/article/view/153/the-limits-of-colour-blind-marxism)
		- This is literally just an [[identity politics]] argument, claiming that Militant were bad because they didn't support affirmative action.
	- Quotes
		- "Frankly, I believe the organization is run by intellectually dishonest social conservatives who are incapable of acknowledging their own mistakes"
		- 
- My feelings in conclusion
	- This is a really difficult situation for me. I didn't get into socialist politics in order to cast doubt on the account of a sexual abuse survivor, but we have to clarify what is an account of abuse, and what the political conclusions flowing from that are. I agree wholeheartedly that none of these incidents should have happened, and that they were all reflective of issues within the Canadian section. I think particularly the culture of drinking outlined in the blog post is really troubling, and is something that I hope the Canadian section is discussing changing. 
	- HOWEVER I cannot honestly tell you that the political conclusions of this blog post are correct. If you haven't read it, I encourage you to do so, and to follow the citations for the political claims - you will not find much backing each of them if you investigate.
- Moving forward
	- I want this discussion to be totally open and honest - If you disagree with anything I've said so far, please please bring it up - we will talk respectfully and I value each of your opinions on the matter
	- At the end of the discussion period, we will decide how we feel. We may be satisfied, we may want to have additional discussions, or we may want to make a concrete proposal for the organization to change something about the way we do business. These are all options for us, as I'll get into in the next point.
	- A note on Bolshevism and disagreements - this is your branch, and it's a living thing rather than static. It has, can, and will change based on the democratic voice of the membership. I've seen this happen in person and I have faith in the rest of the membership to right any wrongs that come into the light.


# 📥 Membership rights and democratic centralism
- 

# AOB
- 

# Next meeting 
- Political topic:
- Organizational topic: