# Branch, Saturday, February 26
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-02-26]]
`TAGS`: #meeting/political 

---
*Amend agenda to include IEC resolution on growth.*
*Expecting PN (me), CC, JCE, Freeman, PQ, JM.*
*Apologies from JC.*

# 📰 Ukraine (20m)
- [[Ukraine]]: need for a proletarian internationalist position. Don't lose a class perspective under the weight of bourgeois public opinion. 

# ☭ Historical materialism and the rise of class society (60m)
- [[Marxism isn't deterministic]]
- [[All history has been history of class struggle]]
- [[Classes arise due to the needs of production]] rather than in an idealistic way. This has an impact on our theory of the [[state]] and how to overthrow class society. 
- Exponential technical advance accelerates crisis. 

# 📥 Voting on election slate (5m)
- We technically have a majority of branch here, four out of six. Therefore, I would argue we can go ahead and vote. 

# Intervention report (15m)
- Mainy activists and union bureaucrats there ([[Marxists orient towards the working class]])
- Demonstrated toothless perspective of the union leadership

# AOB
- Returning to in-person work? [[COVID-19]] wave is essentially back to where we were last fall. 
	- Elaborate on importance of in-person work
	- Parking!
	- Find a new meeting space or the same one?
- Should I create a google calendar for branch activities?

# Next meeting, [[2022-03-05 branch]]
- Political topic: The marxist position on [[Ukraine]]-[[Russia]] conflict
- Organizational topic: Could Chris or Josh have a report on the state of their work? IEC resolution on growth. 