---
date: 2022-05-21
kind: branch
with: SEA branch comrades
---
# Branch, Saturday, May 21
`LINKS:` [[IMT]]
`DATE:` [[2022-05-21]]
#meeting/political 

---
# 📰 News updates
- Castillo facing pressure from the capitalists, discontent from his base in [[Peru]]. 
	- He came to power on a program calling for a national assembly to form a new constitution, has so far failed to deliver. Congress has refused to allow this to proceed, and Castillo has delivered concessions to the bourgeoisie and their right representatives. This has caused his base to weaken somewhat.
- Baby formula shortages
	- Product of the extreme centralization of [[capital]] that a single factory shutdown can cause such a shortage. Shows the inability of a bourgeois state to provide for the needs of the workers, their only solution is to widen the number of brands that WIC recipients are allowed to purchase. 
	- Buttigeg: "Let’s be very clear, this is a capitalist country. The government does not make baby formula, nor should it. Companies make formula."
- Mass shootings
	- Relevance of the development of the security apparatus

# ☭ The Palestinian struggle // [source](https://www.marxist.com/after-netanyahu-s-war-a-united-palestinian-movement-emerges.htm)
- Context of the article
	- Written May 2021 (one year ago) after the 11 day bombing campaign of [[Palestine]] (Gaza) that killed more than 240 people, displacing 75,000.
- Orientation of neighbors
	- Using ceasefire brokerage as leverage with [[Hamas]], really terrified of the firey character of mass resistance to the occupation
- [[USA|American]] orientation
	- Unsurprisingly, pro-[[Israel]] through and through
	- Only concern is for the "stability" of the region
- History of the mass movement
	- Struggle has existed across the 1948 borders, and organized outside official institutions like Fatah (largest faction of [[PLO]]), the Palestinian National Authority and [[Hamas]]. 
	- Emergence of a unified struggle across Palestine and even Israel. 
- The Israeli regime
	- They meant to contain Hamas rather than eradicate them. They rely on the existence of Hamas -- [[Opposites require each other]]. 
	- The rockets of Hamas serve a political purpose for the Israeli right-wing.
	- Netanyahu provokes attack when he wants to shore up support. 
	- Israel also enjoys playing Hamas off against the Abbas government and its [[PLO]] leadership. 
	- Netanyahu even made sure that Hamas would continue to recieve financial support from Qatar! [link](https://www.haaretz.com/middle-east-news/.premium-netanyahu-israel-mossad-chief-doha-qatar-continue-hamas-gaza-money-transfer-1.8564993)
- Back to the mass movement
	- In 2018, ethnic Palestinians had their citizenship stripped, and Israel was defined as "the national home of the Jewish people", stating that "the right to exercise national self-determination in the State of Israel is unique to the Jewish people."
	- The May 2021 general strike united Palestinains inside and outside occupied territory, and proceeded with no support from the [[unions]] in Israel. Construction, transport, and healthcare were nevertheless paralyzed during the one-day strike
- Journalist killing
	- Prominent Al Jazeera journalist shot by Israeli forces, her funeral was later disrupted by riot police
- Perspectives
	- [[Never confuse morality and strategy]] 
	- As Marxists, we should advocate that the Palestinian movement consciously try to break the Israeli state's working class support, fracturing society along class lines
	- This must involve passing beyond bourgeois demands, and onto a socialist program
	- A few thousand of the most conscious Jewish workers are already supportive of Palestinian liberation, this fraction must be increased through hard work and clear class-struggle perspectives that avoid falling into the ethno-nationalist framing preferred by Hamas and the Israeli regime

# 📥 Short review of consolidation discussion
- We should all have our own goals for what we're working on learning
- Use those consolidation sheets if you want to

# AOB
- 

# Next meeting 
- Political topic:
- Organizational topic: